JURISDICTIONAL STATEMENT

This case comes to the Court from the Cleveland Municipal Court's dismissal of the Claims brought by Appellants, Julia Roberts Carter et al., against Appellee, Stark Group L.L.C., in Case Number 2009 CVG 00344 on April 9, 2009. This dismissal by the trial court is a final appealable order that affects Appellants ability to pursue any of its distinct claims against Appellee, and the 8th District Ohio Court of Appeals has jurisdiction to consider this appeal under Article IV, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution and R.C. § 2505.03.

PRELIMINARY STATEMENT AND ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

This Appeal raises an issue of first impression for this Court relating to the scope of a property owner's duty to comply with a lawful order to abate lead hazards in rental housing pursuant to R.C. § 3742.37, Cleveland Codified Ordinance 240.04, and 42 U.S.C. 4851. Unlike the issues raised by most lead poisoning cases that have come before this Court, this Appeal does not involve any issue as to whether the Appellee should escape liability because they lacked sufficient knowledge of the lead hazard posed by the subject premises because Appellee's actual knowledge of these hazards is clearly evidenced by the fact that the City of Cleveland ordered Appellee to remediate numerous lead paint hazards after the City conducted an inspection of the premises after a previous child residing at the subject premises was diagnosed with lead poisoning. Rather, this appeal raises the question of whether a former property owner's liability for the lead poisoning of subsequent tenants is cut off as a matter of law when they relinquish ownership of a property that is subject to a Lead hazard Control Order by allowing it to fall into foreclosure.

Through their notice of appeal, the Appellants have stated their position that based on both common law theories of negligence and violations of specified municipal ordinances and building codes, Appellee, Stark Group, LLC, breached a non-delegable duty to future occupants of the subject premises when it abandoned the property and/or negligently relinquished possession of the property rather than follow through on its obligation to remediate the lead hazards it contained. As a result, the subject premises remained in the hazardous condition that the Appellants have pled resulted in the poisoning of their minor daughter. Therefore the Appellants request review of the following issues:

1) WHETHER THE TRIAL COURT ERRED BY CONSIDERING FACTS OUTSIDE THE PLEADINGS IN RULLING ON APPELLEE'S MOTION "FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS AND TO DISMISS THE STARK GROUP, LLC, THIRD PARTY DEFENDANT" UNDER RULE 12(B)(6) AND FAILING TO RULE ON APPELLEE'S REQUEST FOR FURTHER DISCOVERY UNDER 56(F).

2) WHETHER THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN DISMISSING THE APPELLANTS THIRD PARTY COMPLAINT FINDING THAT IT WAS BEYOND ANY DOUBT THAT THE PLAINTIFFS COULD PROVE NO SET OF FACTS ENTITLING THEM TO RELEIF.

STATEMENT OF ISSUES PRESENTED FOR REVIEW

1) THE TRIAL COURT ERRED BY CONSIDERING FACTS OUTSIDE THE PLEADINGS IN RULLING ON APPELLEE'S MOTION "FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS AND TO DISMISS THE STARK GROUP, LLC, THIRD PARTY DEFENDANT" UNDER RULE 12(B)(6) AND FAILING TO RULE ON APPELLEE'S REQUEST FOR FURTHER DISCOVERY UNDER 56(F).

2) THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN DISMISSING THE APPELLANTS THIRD PARTY COMPLAINT FINDING THAT IT WAS BEYOND ANY DOUBT THAT THE PLAINTIFFS COULD PROVE NO SET OF FACTS ENTITLING THEM TO RELIEF

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

This case arises out of two separate actions for forcible entry and detainer that were brought against Michael Carter and Julia Roberts Carter (hereinafter referred to as "Appellants" or the "Carters") in the Cleveland Municipal Court, Housing Division, 2009CVG00344, which was by Cleveland Development, LLC relating to a rental property located at 4320 East 53rd St., Cleveland, Ohio 44127, and 2010CVG00940, which was brought by Utah Appraisal Service, LLC relating to a property located at 8114 Bemar Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105. In both of these cases the Carters brought Counterclaims and Third Party Complaints through which they alleged that the Plaintiffs in these actions, as well as various Third Party Defendants, were liable for damages resulting from the repeated lead poisoning of their minor daughter, Ashoura Carter. Both of these cases were consolidated by the Trial Court pursuant to Ohio Civil Rule 42(A)(1) through a Judgment Entry in 2010CVG000940 dated April 16, 2010, as well as a Judgment Entry in 2009CVG000344 dated April 19, 2010. R.20 p.1.

At issue in this appeal is the trial court's dismissal the Carters' claims against Third Party Defendant, The Stark Group LLC (hereinafter referred to as "Stark Group" or "Appellee") under Ohio Civil Rule 12(B)(6) for failure to state a claim upon which relief may be granted with regards to the lead poisoning their minor child suffered while living at 4320 East 53rd St., Cleveland, Ohio 44127. In pertinent part, the Carters' Third Party Claims against Stark Group incorporated the following allegations:

1) That there existed a defective condition of the walls, ceilings, floors, and soil of the premises, and more particularly, the paint on the walls, ceilings, oil, and floors contained an unsafe lead content, and walls ceilings and floors were not in a proper condition of repair, and walls, ceilings, and floors had accumulated dust that contained an unsafe lead content. P8 of the Carters' Answer and Counterclaim in 2009CVG00344.

2) That Defendants Michael Carter, Julia Roberts Carter, and Ashoura Carter were unaware of the defective condition caused by the presence of dangerous and unhealthy levels of lead in the lead based paint on the walls of the Premises. Id. at P10.

3) That the Defendant Michael Carter and Third Party Plaintiffs Julia Roberts Carter and Ashoura Carter injuries were caused wholly by the negligence of the Plaintiff Cleveland Development, LLC and the Third Party Defendants, in failing to provide the required notices about lead paint hazards, to remove or cover the dangerous lead-containing paint, dust, soil of the premises, so as to make them inaccessible to children who resided therein. Id. at P11.

4) That as a direct, foreseeable, and immediate result of Plaintiff Cleveland Development LLC and the Third Party Defendants, who are the present and former owners of the premises which is the subject of this litigation, conduct the Third Party Plaintiff Ashoura Carter suffered lead poisoning. Id. at P12.

5) That the Carters' Third Party Complaint was brought to seek monetary damages, punitive damages, and attorney fees for violations of failure to disclose, warn or correct lead paint on the premises which is the subject of this litigation and fore retaliatory eviction. P2 of the Carters' Third Party Complaint in 2009CVG00344.

6) That upon information and belief, Third party Defendant Stark Group, LLC, owned the property at 3420 East 53rd St and is incorporated in the state of Ohio. Its principal place of business is 1310 E. 49th St. Cleveland, Ohio 44114. Third party Defendant Stark Group, LLC sold the property to Wilkerson Enterprises inc. which almost immediately sold the property to Third Party Defendant Florence Bell. Id at P4.

7) That upon information and belief, Third Party Defendant Stark Group, LLC was on notice that the property on East 53rd was contaminated with lead paint after an inspection by the city on or about November 18th, 2004. Id. at P7.

8) That upon information and belief Defendant Stark Group, LLC failed to correct the lead paint condition in the property on East 53rd even though they received several notices and orders to correct this condition from the City of Cleveland. Id. at P8.

9) Third Party Defendant Stark Group, LLC instead sold the property on E. 53rd to Third Party Defendant Wilkeinson Enterprises Inc. on November 17th 2006. Id. at P9.

10) That upon Information and belief, Third Party Defendant Stark Group, LLC intentionally failed to disclose that the property on East 53rd was contaminated with lead paint to Third Party Defendant Wilkinson Enterprises Inc. before selling the real property. Id. at P10.

11) That under Cleveland Ordinance CCO 240.06(a)(2), the inspections done by the City of Cleveland of the subject premises finding lead paint and the resulting orders to Third Party Defendant Stark Group, LLC to correct this condition created a legal duty to third parties, like Third Party Plaintiffs, the breach of which is actionable." Id. at P25.

12) That Third Party Plaintiffs were an intended beneficiary of the City of Cleveland actions. Id. at P26.

13) That the ability to rent and sell the premises was valuable consideration to Third Party Defendant Stark Group, LLC and the failure on its part to correct and disclose the condition that there was lead paint in selling the property resulted in the direct injuries complained of above by Third Party Plaintiffs. Id. at P27.

14) That Third Party Plaintiffs are not simply incidental beneficiaries, but have a cause of action against the Third Party Defendant Stark Group, LLC for its breach of the legal duties listed above which resulted in economic damages, emotional distress and physical injuries to them. Id. at P28.

In response to these claims, Stark Group filed a counterclaim for "Disparagement," "Business Duress," and "Tortious Interference with Advantageous Business Relations" on May 4, 2009. R.58. On July 6, 2009, the Carters filed a Motion Dismiss the Counterclaims Filed by Third Party Defendant The Stark Group, LLC. R.46. And on March 9, 2010 Stark Group filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and to Dismiss The Stark Group, LLC, Third party Defendant on March 9, 2010. R. 29. In this motion, Stark Group argued for Dismissal because "[the Carters] have failed to produce one iota of admissible, probative evidence in their responses to discovery of record herein to maintain their action against this Defendant. Additionally, the factual basis for their claims are at issue and dispute, warranting denial of their premature motion to dismiss, inasmuch as there remain numerous, technical, critical facts and factors, which movants cannot overcome, warranting denial, all at their costs." R. 29, p.1. The motion goes on to state that "[t]he pleadings of record in this cause, clearly warrant judgment for The Stark Group, LLC, Third Party Defendant, particularly in the admissions of the Carters...," cites admissions provided by the Carters that The Stark Group was not the owner of the subject premises when they lived there, and quotes from a few cases holding that a plaintiff must prove breach of a duty, harm, and causation in order to prevail in a negligence claim. Id.

On March 30, 2010, the Carters filed their Brief in Opposition to Judgment on the Pleadings (R.28) and a Request for Further Discovery pursuant to Ohio Rule of Civil Procedure 56(F). R.25. In their opposition brief, the Carters argue that Stark Group's Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings should be treated as a Motion for Summary Judgment under Rule 56(C) because it relies on facts that were outside of the Carters' pleadings, that Stark Group's motion to dismiss should be denied pursuant to Rule 56(C) because there remains a genuine issue of material fact regarding Stark Group's liability to the Carters under common law tort principles, and that any ruling on Stark Group's motion to dismiss should be delayed pending further discovery pursuant to Rule 56(F) because the Defendant had refused to appear for discovery proceedings that were necessary to determine Stark Group's liability.

Without addressing the issues of whether Stark Group's motion to dismiss should be considered as a Motion for Summary Judgment under Rule 56(C), or whether the Carters should be allowed time for further discovery under Rule 56(F), the trial court issued a Judgment Entry granting Stark Group's motion to dismiss pursuant to Rule 12(B)(6) on April 19, 2010. R.20. In the Conclusions of Law and Facts supporting this Judgment Entry, the trial court found that Stark Group relinquished possession of the subject premises through a sheriff's sale rather than a direct sale to another Third Party Defendant, Wilkerson Enterprises, Inc., as was alleged in the Carters' pleadings. Based on the legal finding that O.R.C. § 5302.30(B)(2)(d) exempts transfers "by a foreclosure sale that follows a default in the satisfaction of an obligation secured by a mortgage" from the requirement under O.R.C. § 5302.30 that a seller of residential property must disclose any information concerning the existence of a material defect in the premises, the court concluded that, as a matter of law, the Carters could prove no set of facts which would entitle them to relief on their claims against Stark Group. The trial court also dismissed Stark Group's counterclaims against the Carters.

In accordance with App. R. 4(A), Appellants appealed the trial court's dismissal of the their claims against Appellee by a notice of appeal and assignments of error on May 19, 2010, which was delivered to the 8th District Court of Appeals on May 20, 2010. R.11.

SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT

This Appeal raises an issue of first impression for this Court relating to the scope of a property owner's duty to comply with a lawful order to abate lead hazards in rental housing pursuant to R.C. § 3742.37, Cleveland Codified Ordinance 240.04, and 42 U.S.C. 4851. Despite the fact that these statutes authorize the issuance of mandatory Lead Hazard Control Orders for the explicit purpose of preventing further instances of childhood lead poisoning, Ohio courts have yet to recognize that a former owner of rental housing who fails to comply with a Lead Hazard Control Order can be held liable for the lead poisoning of subsequent occupants.

Appellants urge that this Court now recognize a property owner's liability for the harms that result from his/her failure to remediate a known lead hazard in accordance with a lawful order cannot be cut off simply because such an owner relinquishes possession of a property. Although Ohio courts have yet to specifically recognize that a former owner's failure to comply with an order to abate lead hazards in rental housing breaches a legal duty with regards to the health and safety of individuals who might occupy the property after he/she relinquished title, such a finding is supported under at least two theories of liability that have been adopted by Ohio Courts. First, the City of Cleveland's enactment of C.C.O. 240.04(e), which states that "No person shall fail to comply with an order issued by the Commissioner," and the Ohio Legislatures enactment of landlord duties under RC § 5321.04 and R.C. § 3742.38, all support the imposition of duty under negligence per se. And second, even in the absence of a statute that gives rise to negligence per se, such liability is supported by the common law negligence principle that one has a duty to conduct one's self with the degree of care that an ordinarily reasonable and prudent person exercises, or is accustomed to exercising, under the same or similar circumstances.

ARGUMENT

1) STANDARD OF REVIEW

The standard of review of the grant of a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is the same as the standard of review for a Civ. R. 12(B)(6) Motion. Review of a dismissal of a complaint based upon a judgment on the pleadings requires independent review of the complaint to determine if the dismissal was appropriate. Rich v. Erie County Department of Human Resources (1995), 106 Ohio App.3d 88, 91, 665 N.E.2d 278.

Judgment on the pleadings may be granted where no material factual issue exists. However, it is axiomatic that a motion for judgment on the pleadings is restricted solely to the allegations contained in those pleadings. Flanagan v. Williams (1993), 87 Ohio App.3d 768, 623 N.E.2d 185. See, also, Nelson v. Pleasant (1991), 73 Ohio App.3d 479, 481, 597 N.E.2d 1137: Barilatz v. Luke (Dec. 7, 1995), Cuyahoga App. No. 68304, unreported, 1995 WL 723294.

A reviewing court need not defer to the trial court's decision in such cases. Id. A Motion for a Judgment on the Pleadings, pursuant to Civ. R. 12(C), presents only questions of law. Peterson v. Teodosia (1973), 34 Ohio St.2d 161, 165-166, 297 N.E.2d 113. The determination of a motion under Civ. R. 12(C) is restricted solely to the allegations in the pleadings and the nonmoving party is entitled to have all material allegations in the complaint, with all reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, construed in her favor." Id.

2) THE TRIAL COURT ERRED BY CONSIDERING FACTS OUTSIDE THE PLEADINGS IN RULLING ON APPELLEE'S MOTION "FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS AND TO DISMISS THE STARK GROUP, LLC, THIRD PARTY DEFENDANT" UNDER RULE 12(B)(6) AND FAILING TO RULE ON APPELLEE'S REQUEST FOR FURTHER DISCOVERY UNDER 56(F).

In its Brief in Opposition to Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings Appellants argued that the trial court should treat Stark's Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as a motion for summary judgment pursuant to Rule 56 of the Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure because it relied information outside of the pleadings by quoting from and attaching the Carter's responses to Stark's second set of discovery requests. R.28. Based on the understanding that Stark's Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings thus constituted a motion for Summary Judgment, Appellants' framed their Opposition Brief as an Opposition to Summary Judgment and requested that the trial court grant them further time for discovery pursuant to Rule 56(F). In Attorney Kramer's affidavit in support of this request for additional discovery, Mr. Kramer indicated that Appellants had timely noticed Stark of a deposition under Rule 30(B)(5), but that Stark did not attend the deposition. Due to Stark's failure to attend this deposition, Appellant's were unable to to develop evidence that Appellee was under a duty to protect the Carters from injury, that Appellee had breached this duty, and that the Carters' injuries proximately resulted from the defendant's breach of duty. See Affidavit attached to R.28.

Not only do Appellants contend that the trial court erred by recognizing Appellee's Motion as one under 12(b)(6) because it relied on facts outside the pleadings, Flanagan v. Williams (1993), 87 Ohio App.3d 768, 623 N.E.2d 185. See, also, Nelson v. Pleasant (1991), 73 Ohio App.3d 479, 481, 597 N.E.2d 1137; Barilatz v. Luke (Dec. 7, 1995), Cuyahoga App. No. 68304, unreported, 1995 WL 723294, Appellants also contend that the trial court itself relied on facts outside the pleadings when it used new facts regarding the manner in which Appellee relinquished ownership of the subject premises in granting dismissal under Rule 12(b)(6). And it was based on new facts that Appellant's brought to the court's attention based on its understanding that the Appellee's Motion should be considered as one for summary judgment that the trial court found that the subject premises had passed through foreclosure rather than a direct sale from Appellee. In doing so, Appellant's submit that the court erred in both granting dismissal under 12(b)(6), as well as in concluding that Appellee should be dismissed because foreclosure absolves an owner of the duty to disclose known hazards to subsequent purchasers under R.C. § 5302.30. Even if it is the case that R.C. § 5302.30 does not impose a duty on owners to disclose lead hazards to subsequent purchasers who take possession through a foreclosure sale, this does not, as a matter of law, mean that Appellee was absolved of all liability to Appellants as a matter of law because R.C. § 5302.03 only deals with duties among buyers and sellers or real estate, not third parties who might be harmed by the negligent acts of such buyers and sellers.

Thus, although Appellants contend that dismissal was inappropriate under 12(b)(6) even under the facts considered by the trial court, Appellants submit that it was error for the trial court to enter a ruling under Rule 12(b)(6), and that the trial court should have thus ruled on their request for additional discovery under Rule 56(f) before entering its final order. In the event that the trial court had properly allowed this request for additional discovery before making a decision based under Rule 56(C), Appellants would have been able to depose Appellee and develop facts tending to show that Appellee had a financial interest in the foreclosing party, and had made a conscious decision to allow the subject premises to fall into foreclosure.

3) THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN DISMISSING THE APPELLANTS THIRD PARTY COMPLAINT FINDING THAT IT WAS BEYOND ANY DOUBT THAT THE PLAINTIFFS COULD PROVE NO SET OF FACTS ENTITLING THEM TO RELEIF.

To prevail on their common law negligence claim, Appellate Carters must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of reasonable care, that the defendant breached this duty 1, that damage resulted, and that there was a causal relation between the breach of the duty and the damage. Bell v. Goldsmith, 1995 WL 396352 (Ohio App. 8 Dist. 1995).

It is clear that Stark knew prior to the Carters' occupying the premises of the lead paint hazard. The issue is whether the property being purchased at a sheriff's sale breaks the duty imposed on it to protect foreseeable future tenants like the Carters from harm of lead poisoning? The trial court found that it did not state a claim, but this was legal error.

a. Public Policy demands all Actors involved in Lead Poisoning of a Innocent Child be Liable when they Breach their duty to Remediate

Prior to 1950, most houses were painted with lead-based paint. About two-thirds of homes built before 1940 and about half built from 1940 to 1960 contain heavily leaded paint. There is evidence that the Lead Industry Association and paint manufacturers knew of risks of lead to children since 1933, but continued making lead-based paint until forbidden in 1978.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) defines lead poisoning in terms of lead in a child's blood in micrograms per tenth of a liter (mcg/dl). The current level considered "lead poisoned" is 10 mcg/dl. In the instant case Aushora Carter blood level was 2110 mcg/dl. The CDC and the American Academy of Pediatrics have both described lead poisoning as the number one environmental problem facing American children.

The vast majority of victims are poor minorities live in older housing. Black children are more than twice as likely to be poisoned as white children. Ashoura Carter and the Carter family fits all of these statistical generalizations of the problem. The Carters are African-American, Ashoura was only a little over one year of age when she was lead poisoned at the the 3420 E. 53rd St, Cleveland, Ohio property that had be abandoned by Stark Group L.L.C. rather than pay the expenses to remediate the lead paint problem.

Children are the most vulnerable to lead-based paint poisoning. They are most likely to be exposed by eating paint chips, chewing on objects containing lead-based paint, and breathing household dust containing lead-based paint. The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) says that a child who swallows large amounts of lead may develop may occur. Even at much lower levels of exposure, lead can affect a child's mental and physical growth.

Draft for Public Comment

Damage from lead poisoning is permanent and irreversible. The New England Journal of Medicine has reported that a child exposed to low levels of lead during childhood is seven times more likely to drop out of high school and six times more likely to have a significant reading disability. At higher levels of exposure, lead can cause kidney damage, impaired reproductive function, anemia, high blood pressure, coma and, potentially, death.The City of Cleveland ranks first in the nation among large metropolitan areas in the percentage of children with blood lead levels sufficient to cause permanent injuries. Cleveland had the highest percentage of children with lead poisoning among cities with the most lead poisoning cases (based on 2001 data). Further, a 2003 study found that the Saint Clair-Superior, Glenville, and Fairfax neighborhoods had the highest percentage of lead levels in children in the City of Cleveland. See Attachment One - Table form Environmental Watch. Each of these neighborhoods had blood lead levels at or above 20% of the total tested. Citywide, 20 neighborhoods had lead poisoning rates of 10% or greater. Id. Of the cities with the highest rates of lead-poisoned children, Cleveland is tied with Buffalo for oldest housing stock. The 2000 U.S. Census data for median year structure built is 1940 for Cleveland. This further illustrates that large number of homes which are likely to contain lead-based paint.

[SEE Figure 1: Created by Environmental Health Watch with data from the Alliance for Healthy Homes IN ORIGINAL]

In such an environment where -the victims are poor and without power -justice mandates that all actors that contributed to the harm must be required to pay for the damage. The issue presented in this appeal is a matter of not only first impression in Ohio, but the extensive research in preparing this brief uncovered no decisions either pro or con on the issue of holding a previous property owner liable when it intentionally abandons the property to avoid lead remediation costs resulting in a future family with small children becoming poisoned at the property now own by a new landlord.

b. Failure to Comply with Lead Hazard Control Order Constitutes Negligence per se Under the Ohio Revised Code and/or Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

Prior to the Ohio Supreme Court's decision in Shroades v. Rental (1981), 68 Ohio St. 2d 20, tenants like the Carters were clearly at the mercy of unscrupulous landlords who could and would continue to collect rents for property in various states of disrepair. Tenants were often in financial circumstances which would not permit them to assume the cost of repair or to, alternatively, relocate themselves and their families to a new home where they would not be exposed to the hazards of a structure which had not been properly maintained. Similarly, a tenant did not have available any effective legal remedy to force a landlord to make repairs or pursue recovery for personal injury or damages done as a result of a landlord's failure to put and keep the premises in a fit and habitable condition.

Recognizing that Ohio common law had failed to place a cognizable duty to repair on out of possession landlords and that the financial burden of proper maintenance is best placed upon landlords, the Ohio legislature enacted RC § 5321.04 which set forth the obligations of any landlord who is a party to a rental agreement. This statute states in relevant part:

(A) A landlord who is a party to a rental agreement shall do all of the following:

(1) Comply with the requirements of all applicable building, housing, health, and safety codes that materially affect health and safety;

(2) Make all repairs and do whatever is reasonably necessary to put and keep the premises in a fit and habitable condition;

The Ohio Supreme Court thereafter held that a landlord is liable for injuries, sustained on the demised residential premises, which are proximately caused by the landlord's failure to fulfill the duties imposed by RC § 5321.04. Shroades, supra at 25.

This issue was revisited by the Court nineteen years later in Sikora v. Wenzel 88 Ohio St.3d 493 (2000) which held that:

A landlord's violation of the duties imposed by R.C. 5321.04 (A)(1) or 5321.04(A)(2) constitutes negligence per se, but a landlord will be excused from liability under either section if he neither knew nor should have known of the factual circumstances that caused the violation. (Shroades v. Rental Homes, Inc. [1981], 68 Ohio St.2d 20, 22 0.0.3d 152, 427 N.E.2d 774, clarified.) Id. at at Syllabus.

The Shroades Court went on to establish a rule of law whereby a violation of a law applying a duty on a landlord would constitute negligence per se subject, of course, to a showing that the violation of the statute was a proximate cause of the alleged injury. Anderson v. Ceccardi (1983). 6 Ohio St.3d 110.; Eisenmuth v. Moneyhon (1954), 161 Ohio St. 367.

The distinction between negligence and negligence per se is that the former must be found by the jury from the facts, the conditions and circumstances disclosed by the evidence; whereas, the latter is a violation of a specific requirement of law or ordinance, the only fact for determination by the jury being the commission or omission of the specific act inhibited or required. Swoboda v. Brown (1935), 129 Ohio St. 512 at Syllabus 4. Where a specific requirement is made by statute and an absolute duty thereby imposed, no inquiry is to be made whether the defendant acted as a reasonably prudent man, or was in the exercise of ordinary care. Id. at 522; Ornella v. Robertson (1968), 14 Ohio St.2d 144, 149. Liability is, therefore, established irrespective of the question of whether his act is such as is deemed to meet and satisfy the test of ordinary or reasonable care which would be applied in the absence of such statutory definition and imposition of absolute duty. Id.

In Shroades, the plaintiff was injured as a result of an defective exterior step which broke has she attempted to exit the apartment which she had rented from the defendant. There was no specific building code or other regulation alleged to have been violated; therefore, the cause of action was based primarily upon the landlord's failureto comply with the requirement of RC § 5321.04(A)(2) to put and keep the premises in a fit and habitable condition. The language of RC § 5321.04(A)(2) does not set forth a specific requirement and sounds more like, a general negligence standard; therefore, the Court, in essence, was finding that a necessary pre-requisite to the violation of this subsection of the statute was the proving of an act or omission which would constitute general negligence (i.e. negligence within negligence per se). Notice of the subject defect, either actual or constructive, has been a long-standing element of proof for negligence in premises liability cases; therefore, insertion of this element into the analysis of RC § 5321.04(A)(2) is legally sound and appropriate.

In the instant case, the Third Party complaint pled that Appellee Stark when it owned the property was under duties imposed by the City of Cleveland Codified ordinance defining lead hazards as a nuisance. Cleveland Ordinance 240.02. The Code notes in pertinent part that 'The Commissioner may determine that a nuisance is required to be immediately controlled under this section if, in the Commissioner's opinion, failure to immediately control the hazard may cause a serious risk to the health of the occupants of the property. In such a case, the Commissioner may require the owner or manager of the property to immediately control the nuisance." At C.C.O. 240.04(e), the Code further provides that that "No person shall fail to comply with an order issued by the Commissioner..."

The purpose of ordering property owners to control lead hazards is derived from Ohio Revised Code § 3742.37, Ohio Administrative Code 3701-30-07 and 3701-30-08, which in essence grants the director to conduct public health lead risk assessments on properties that he determines are a possible source of child's lead poisoning. Specifically, 3701-30-07 aims to prevent lead poisoning in individuals under six years of age. Furthermore, federal law also establishes a duty to abate lead nuisances in housing where children under the age of six may reside. The Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act, 42 USCS § 4851 (1), enacted under President George Bush, finds that low-level lead poisoning is widespread among American children under age 6, with minority and low-income communities disproportionately affected.

Appellee Stark received an order on February 2, 2005 to control the lead hazards identified at 3420 E. 53rd St. Despite agreeing to comply with and receiving an extension to comply with the order until May 14, 2005, failed to abate the nuisance and instead walked away from the property in the hopes of avoiding the expense of remediation of the problem!. A new owner subsequently purchased the property, but as will be discussed later, Appellee's failure to comply with the order and statutory mandates after notice of the hazard contributed to Appellant Ashoura Carter, a child under the age of six physical and emotional injuries.

Based on the statutes and ordinances that have been enacted by the City of Cleveland and the State of Ohio, Appellee's failure to comply with the order requiring it to abate the lead nuisance at 3420 E. 53rd is negligence per se. The trial court erred in not finding this intentional and willful refusal to comply with the law to be both the factual and proximate cause of Ashoura's physical and emotional injuries. Even though there were no contractual relations between Stark and the Carters it may be held liable. . See, e.g., Tackling v. Shinerman, 630 A.2d 1381 (Conn. Super. Ct. 1993). (A real estate appraiser may be liable to the purchaser of the appraised property for negligent failure to detect peeling, chipping, and cracking lead-based paint even no privity exists between them) [Attachment-4]; See, generally, Pancak, Miceli, and Sirmans, "Legal Duties of Property Owners Under Lead-Based Paint Laws." 24 Real Estate LJ 7 (1995).

c. Appellee Stark Breached a Common Law duty to Subsequent Residents when it Relinquished Ownership of the subject premises through Foreclosure rather than Cooperating with the City in Remediating the Lead Hazards it Posed to Occupants.

Predecessor landowner liability for nuisance is recognized in the Restatement (Second) of Torts § 840A [Attachment-2] which states:

A vendor or lessor of land upon which there is a condition involving a nuisance for which he would be subject to liability if he continued in possession remains ubject to liability for the continuance of the nuisance after he transfers the land.

(Emphasis added.) The comment to section 840A further explains:

If the vendor or lessor has himself created on the land a condition that results in a nuisance by selling or leasing the land to another. In these cases it frequently has been said that by transferring the land with the condition existing upon it he has authorized the continuation of the nuisance. This is usually somewhat fictitious; and a better reason is that his responsibility toward those outside of his land is such that he is not free to terminate his liability to them for the condition that he has himself caused or concealed, by passing the land itself on to a third person. The effect of the rule is to require vendors and lessors in order to avoid liability to take reasonable steps to abate existing conditions involving any nuisance before they transfer land.

Although there is no case in Ohio which expressly adopts or interprets Section 840A, Ohio courts generally look to the Restatement (Second) of Torts to determine the liability of landowners for claims brought against them for injuries suffered both on and off the land by conditions on the land. DiCenzo v. A-Best Prods. Co., Inc., (2008) 120 Ohio St.3d 149, 164, 897 N.E.2d 132. The Supreme Court recognized that "[t]he Restatement itself is a roadmap of where courts are going." See also, Gilbert v. Korvette, Inc., 327 A.2d 94. 100. fn. 25 (Pa. 1974)(stating "this court has not hesitated to adopt sections of the Restatement (Second) of Torts when our common-law precedents varied from the Restatement or when the Pennsylvania common law provided no answer.)

Another section of the Restatement (Second) of Torts § 373 expressly refutes the trial court's position that Appellee Stark may not be held liable for damages caused to the Carters after the transferred ownership or possession of it. The rule in § 373 "applies to any structure or other artificial condition upon the land which the vendor has himself created, or which he has negligently permitted to remain after it has been created by another." Restatement (Second) of Torts § 373 (1965) [emphasis added]. "It applies where the condition involves an unreasonable risk of harm to others outside of the land, whether that risk is due to the original character of the structure or condition, or to disrepair." Id.

Based upon the Third Party Complaint which must be considered true the Carters' have stated the necessary elements for a claim that Stark negligently permitted the property not to be remediated and simply abandoned the property. Olpp v. Hocking Val. Ry. Co., 22 Ohio N.P.(N.S.) 433 (Ohio.Com.Pl., 1920) (If it is within the power of person by exercise of skill and labor to abate a nuisance, he must do so, but if he fails to do so and allows it to continue he is responsible for maintaining a continuing nuisance.)

There is one case on all points by the highest court in the State of Massachusetts on this issue. In Minaya v. Massachusetts Credit Union Share Ins. Corp.,392 Mass. 904, 906 (Mass., 1984)[Attachment -3] the Supreme Judicial Council held that:

Further, "[p]ublic policy in a civilized community requires that there be someone to be held responsible for a private nuisance on each piece of real estate, and, particularly in an urban area, that there be no oases of nonliability where a private nuisance may be maintained with impunity." Kurtigian v. Worcester, 348 Mass. 284, 291, 203 N.E.2d 692 (1965). Thus, an owner of land who has maintained a nuisance may not be discharged of responsibility for that nuisance merely by either failing to pay property taxes or by a transfer until the new titleholder has had a reasonable time to correct the nuisance. Resolution of the plaintiffs' claims is therefore contingent on the development of facts relative to the nature of the nuisance, the time at which the defendant relinquished control of the property, and whether the period commencing on the date on which the city assumed control and ending on the date of the fire was reasonably sufficient to permit the city to abate the particular nuisance.

See also, Prosser, Torts § 64 at 413 (4th ed. 1971). The same conclusions hold true for the liability as described in Restatement (Second) of Torts § 840A (1977) in decisions from other jurisdictions. State v. Ole Olsen, Ltd., 38 A.D.2d 967, 968, 331 N.Y.S.2d 761, 763 (2d Dept.1972) ("[NY-RPAPL § 841] specifically authorizes the prosecution of an action against both the creator of a nuisance on real property and his grantee to abate the nuisance and for damages resultant therefrom"); United States v. Hooker Chemicals and Plastics Corp., 722 F.Supp. 960, 968-70 (W.D.N.Y.1989); State of N.Y. v. Solvent Chemical Co., Inc. 880 F.Supp. 139, 144 (W.D.N.Y., 1995) (It seems likely, therefore, that the New York courts would hold, by extension, that one who passively continues a public nuisance created by a prior owner, and then resells the property upon which the nuisance exists (so becoming an "intermediate owner"), could be held liable for abatement of the nuisance and for damages unless he had no actual or constructive notice of the existence of the nuisance at the time he owned the property.) Smith v. Elliott 9 Pa. 345 (1848); Royal Indem. Co. v. Caleco, Inc., 2004 WL 2612288 (E.D.Pa.2004) at Slip Op 7 (There is support, however, in both Pennsylvania case law and the Restatement for the proposition that liability for nuisance can continue beyond a party's sale of the land., the Pennsylvania Supreme Court noted that a party who creates a nuisance is liable for any resulting damages and that this liability continues for as long as the nuisance does-even after the creator's possessory interest has terminated. Restatement § 840A echoes this principle and additionally imposes a limited liability on vendors who did not initially create the nuisance) Eastman v. Amoskeag Manufacturing Co., 44 N.H. 143, 156 (1862)"He who erects a nuisance does not by conveying the land to another transfer the liability for the erection to the grantee."); Goss, Inc., 630 F.Supp. 1361, 1407 (D. N.H. 1985); Robertson v. Monroe. 80 N.H. 258, 262, 116 A. 92 (1922) and other cases cited therein.

d. The Appellants Injuries Were Proximately Caused by Appellee Stark's Failure to Remediate Known Lead Hazards Prior to Abandoning the Subject Premises to Foreclosure

The plaintiff has the burden to prove that the defendant's tortious conduct was a factual cause of the plaintiff's harm. Consistent with the burden of proof in civil actions, plaintiff must demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that a defendant's tortious conduct was a factual cause of harm. This burden consists of the two elements of the burden of proof: 1) the burden of production, which requires the introduction of sufficient evidence to permit a rational factfinder to make a determination that a defendant's tortious conduct was a factual cause of the harm, and 2) the burden of persuasion, which requires that the factfinder be persuaded from the evidence that factual causation more likely than not exists. Restatement Second of Torts § 433B(1)

To isolate and determine whether an act was a factual cause of an outcome requires consideration of whether that outcome would have occurred without the act's having taken place. As philosophers have taught, factual cause is not a phenomenon that can be seen or perceived; instead, it is an inference drawn from prior experience and some, often limited, understanding of the other causal factors-the causal mechanism-required for the outcome. Thus, all causal determinations require inferential reasoning. Sometimes the inferential reasoning required is quite evident, as when a child is found to have suffered from lead poisoning in a home that was under an order for lead abatement. Reasonable inferences are matters left to the jury's collective experience and common sense.

At this stage of the litigation the plaintiff need not prove the defendant's tortious conduct was a cause of the harm. As was discussed earlier the legal standard for judgment on the pleadings all factual allegations must be taken as true. In the portion of the Appellants Answer, counterclaims & Third Party Complaint contain these allegations:

That the Defendant Michael Carter and Third Party Plaintiffs Julia Roberts Carter and Ashoura Carter injuries were caused wholly by the negligence of the Plaintiff Cleveland Development, LLC and the Third Party Defendants, in failing to provide the required notices about lead paint hazards, to remove or cover the dangerous lead-containing paint, dust, soil of the premises, so as to make them inaccessible to children who resided therein. Answer, Counterclaim & Third Party Complaint, at P11.

That Third Party Plaintiffs are not simply incidental beneficiaries, but have a cause of action against the Third Party Defendant Stark Group, LLC for its breach of the legal duties listed above which resulted in economic damages, emotional distress and physical injuries to them. Id. at P28.

Even if this was to be based on a Rule 56 standard the civil burden of proof merely requires a genuine issue of material fact. Here, the Carters have met their burden of proof by presenting evidence that meets the required standard. Stark Group LLC received an order to control lead hazards from the Cleveland Department of Public Health on February 2, 2005. Stark was ordered to comply with this order by March 15, 2005 but received an extension until May 14, 2005 based upon a request by the Defendant. Further, the current owner, Ms. Bell has received a similar order to control lead hazards. This order was received more than two years after Stark's clear duty to abate the lead in the home. This evidence meets the standard raising a genuine issue of material fact and establishes that Stark Group LLC is the factual and proximate cause of the harm suffered by the Carters.

When a party sues multiple actors and proves that each engaged in tortious conduct that exposed the plaintiff to a risk of harm and that the tortious conduct of one or more of them caused the plaintiff's harm but the plaintiff cannot reasonably be expected to prove which actor or actors caused the harm, the burden of proof, including both production and persuasion, on factual causation is shifted to the defendants. Courts have shifted the burden of proof on the aspect of causation that requires identification of the actor who committed the tortious conduct-there being adequate evidence that the tortious conduct caused the plaintiff's harm. These cases are characterized by a close relationship among the actors who potentially caused the other's harm, the actors having superior knowledge of the relevant circumstances, and the person harmed having no reasonable prospect for obtaining evidence of causation.

In some cases, the specific facts of the defendant's tortious conduct and its relationship to the harm to the plaintiff may be sufficient to justify a reasonable inference of causation. As a matter of scope of liability, the defendant's tortious conduct must increase the risk of harm to the plaintiff and such tortious conduct could reasonably be found, after the fact, to have increased the risk of harm to a greater extent than the risk posed by all other potential causes. In the end, the line between permissible inference for the jury and impermissible speculation is one that must be determined based on the specific facts. Since Appellant's have alleged that Appellee is liable as a joint tortfeaser with the other Third Party Defendants in this action, the question of whether Appellee's conduct was such that Appellee could have reasonably foreseen its occurrence based on their conduct is a factual determination that should be left for the jury.

CONCLUSION 2

In the present appeal, this Court should reverse the trial court and find that the Third Party Compliant against Stark states a claim. It is the only public position that recognizes that a property owner may not escape liability by refusing to do its statutory duties. It is only just and fair since the Carters' are innocent victims and the defendants', including Stark, are the ones at fault.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Edward G. Kramer

Edward G. Kramer (0024873)

The Fair Housing Law Clinic

3214 Prospect Avenue

Cleveland, Ohio 44115-2600

216-431-7400

/s/ Ryan Deyoung

RYAN DEYOUNG (0086939)

FAIR HOUSING LAW CLINIC

The Housing Advocates, Inc.

3214 Prospect Avenue, East

Cleveland, Ohio 44115-2600

(216) 431-7400

(216) 431-6149 Fax

ATTORNEYS FOR

DEFENDANTS-APPELLLANTS

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

A copy of the foregoing Brief was mailed this 18th day of March 2011 to the following:

J. Norman Stark, Attorney #0007243

Counsel for The Stark Group, LLC

1310 East 49th Street, 2nd Flr.

Cleveland, Ohio 44114-3803

Tel.: (216) 426-8400 Fax: (216) 426-8411

Email: Normanstark@aol.com

/s/ Edward G. Kramer

EDWARD G. KRAMER

[SEE ATTACHMENT -1 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE ATTACHMENT -5 IN ORIGINAL]
