IN THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS GEAUGA COUNTY, OHIO
THE ESTATE OF ANTHONY NOTARIAN, MARIA SCALZO, EXECUTRIX
CASE NO. 23 M 000467
JUDGE DAVID M. ONDREY
Plaintiff,
V.
JULIA NOTARIAN, et al.,
Defendants.
PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR PARTIAL SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Now comes Maria Scalzo, plaintiff and executrix of The Estate of Anthony Notarian, by and through undersigned counsel, and pursuant to Civ.R. 56, respectfully requests this Court to grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment on the first cause possession claim in plaintiff's Complaint. Based on the admissible evidence presented and to be presented to the Court, the Court will find there is no genuine issue of material fact that the Estate of Anthony Notarian (The "Estate") is entitled to possession of the premises located at 8127 Cedar Road, Chesterland, Ohio 44026 (the "Premises"), and plaintiff is entitled to a judgment in its favor as a matter of law. A memorandum in support of this Motion is attached.

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
I. PRELIMINARY STATEMENT
This Court should grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment on the first claim for possession in plaintiff's Complaint because there is no genuine issue of material fact. The Estate is entitled to possession of the Premises pursuant to an order of the Geauga County Probate Court, and because defendants signed a deed to the Premises over to the Estate pursuant to that court order. When defendants did not vacate the Premises, plaintiff notified defendants to leave the Premises in accordance with the requirements under R.C. § 1923.04(A) before bringing a forcible entry and detainer action. Therefore, the Estate is entitled to possession of the Premises and this Court should grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment on plaintiff's possession claim.
II. FACTS
Anthony Notarian owned and resided in the premises located at 8127 Cedar Road, Chesterland, Ohio 44026, in Geauga County. See attached Exhibit 1. Following a severe health incident on or about January 1, 2019, Anthony's brother Gino Notarian took control of his finances using a power of attorney, and systematically transferred

all Anthony's property he could find, valued around $2 million, to himself, including the Cedar Roads Property. See attached Exhibit 2. Gino's granddaughter, Julia Notarian, and her partner, Charles Rossbach III, subsequently resided at the Cedar Road Property rent free. See attached Exhibit 3, J4. Anthony Notarian died on February 22, 2020, and on July 7, 2020, Maria Scalzo was appointed Fiduciary of the
Estate of Anthony Notarian and issued Letters of Authority. Compl. J8; See attached Exhibit 4. Plaintiff is the personal representative of decedent Anthony Notarian, entitled to administer his real property after his death. See attached Exhibit 4.
The Estate of Anthony Notarian then filed an action against Gino Notarian and other defendants for the return of estate assets. See Case No. 20 PC 000280 in the Geauga County Court of Common Pleas, Probate Division. In August 2021, Gino Notarian transferred the Cedar Road premises to defendants Julia Notarian and Charles Rossbach III for below market value and without the knowledge or consent of the Estate. The Estate immediately filed an objection to the transfer. See attached Exhibits 5 and 13. Julia Notarian and Charles Rossbach III were subsequently added as parties to the action to recover estate assets and appeared before the court. See attached Exhibit 6.

In March 2022 Judge Grendell granted partial summary judgment to the Estate of Anthony Notarian, ruling that the premises at 8127 Cedar Road be returned to the Estate, and ordering the Estate to manage any sale of the Premises. See attached Exhibit 7, p. 9-10. Several months later, Judge Grendell issued further orders that the Cedar Road Premises be returned to the Estate. See attached Exhibit 8, p. 2. When defendants Julia Notarian and Charles Rossbach III failed to comply with the court's orders, the Estate filed a Motion to Show Cause. See attached Exhibits 9 and 13. Defendants Julia Notarian and Charles Rossbach III executed a deed conveying the real property to the Estate of Anthony Notarian on February 1, 2023. See attached Exhibits 10 and 13.
With the defendants not vacating the premises, on April 11, 2023 Judge Grendell entered an order granting the Estate the power to manage the Cedar Road Property "which includes but is not limited to, inventorying said premises, collecting rents, paying all taxes and assessments, making repairs and insuring buildings/ residences accordingly." See attached Exhibit 11. Despite the Estate's right to administer the Cedar Road Premises, Julia Notarian and Charles Rossbach III are in possession of the premises, and they refuse to remove their belongings or turn over possession of the Premises. See attached Exhibit 3. The Estate, to date, does not have

access to the Property with a key. See attached Exhibit 3. This Motion incorporates affidavits from the property manager and undersigned counsel, exhibits 3 and 13 respectively, and the exhibits attached to those affidavits by reference.
III. LAW AND ARGUMENT
A. Motion for Summary Judgment Standard
The Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure provide under Civ.R 56(C) that summary judgment is proper if "the pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, written admissions, affidavits, transcripts of evidence, and written stipulations of fact, if any ... show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law." No genuine issue of material fact exists when "it appears from the evidence that reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion, and viewing such evidence most strongly in favor of the party against whom the motion for summary judgement is made, that conclusion is adverse to that party. Temple o. Wean United, Inc., 50 Ohio St.2d 317, 327, 364 N.E.2d 267 (1977). Summary judgment proceedings under the Civil Rules are applicable to forcible entry and detainer actions. Siegler v. Batdorff, 63 Ohio App.2d 76, 80, 408 N.E.2d 1383 (8th Dist. 1979).

To prevail on a motion for summary judgment, the moving party bears the initial burden of identifying those portions of the record that demonstrate the absence of genuine issues of material fact concerning an essential element of the nonmoving party's claim. Dresher v. Burt, 75 Ohio St.3d 280, 292, 662 N.E.2d 264 (1996). When the moving party properly supports its motion for summary judgment, the nonmoving party may not rest upon the mere allegation of the pleadings, but must set forth specific facts demonstrating that there is a genuine issue for trial. Jackson v. Alert Fire and Safety Equip., Inc., 58 Ohio St.3d 48, 51-52, 567 N.E.2d 1027 (1991). If the party does not so respond, then summary judgment shall be entered against that party. Id.
B. The Court should grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment because the Estate is entitled to possession of the Premises owned by decedent during his lifetime pursuant to court order, and because Defendants signed the deed to the Premises over to the Estate pursuant to court order.
The Court should grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment because the Geauga County Probate Court ordered the return of the Premises to the Estate, and subsequently defendants executed a deed conveying the Premises to the

Estate. A party is subject to a forcible entry and detainer action if that party is "an occupier of lands or tenements, without color of title, and the complainant has the right of possession to them." R.C. § 1923.02(A)(5). "When 'possession is dependent on title, it is the present title which controls,' and the court may establish the right to possession" with the present title. Usha Pillai IRA LLC o. Roseman, 8th Dist. Cuyahoga No. 112524, 2023-Ohio-3480, J 18, citing Haas o. Gerski, 175 Ohio St. 327, 330, 194 N.E.2d 765 (1963).
In Usha Pillai IRA LLC v. Roseman the court granted judgment for plaintiff seeking eviction even though the defendant contended that he had a lease with a third party who previously held title to the property in question, but was not the present title holder. Id. at J4. The court held that, where a prior court proceeding had determined the present right to title, there was no question as to the present title being with the plaintiff, and no reason to relitigate that issue. Id. at J19.
Here, similar to Usha, plaintiff is the present title holder, and therefore has the right to possession of the Premises. Judge Grendell of the Geauga County Probate Court determined defendants lacked valid title and ordered the defendants to convey the Premises to the Estate. See attached Exhibit 7. Following a filing of a Motion to Show Cause, defendants executed a deed conveying the Premises back to the Estate

on February 1, 2023. See attached Exhibits 10 and 13. Title to property passes upon the proper execution and delivery of a deed, regardless of when or if it is recorded. Wayne Bldg. & Loan Co. of Wooster v. Yarborough, 11 Ohio St.2d 195, 212, 228 N.E.2d 841 (1967). Delivery of this deed to the probate court constitutes delivery of title, thus the Estate has title to the Premises. Gordon v. Bartlett, 62 Ohio App. 295, 305-306, 23 N.E2d 964, 969 (1938).
Additionally, plaintiff is acting under court orders to manage and sell the Estate property. In Sed v. Mundy, where the decedent's real property was found to be a part of his probate estate, the plaintiff estate administer filed an action for forcible entry and detainer against the defendant living in decedent's real property. Sed o. Mundy, 11th Dist. Portage No. 2016-P-0019, 2016-Ohio-8431, at J5. The 11th District Court of Appeals upheld the trial court's decision, holding that the decedent's will empowered the plaintiff to sell the real property, giving plaintiff a "superior right to possession." Id. at J18.
Similar to Sed, here, Judge Grendell of the Geauga County Probate Court, through a series of orders, empowered plaintiff with the right to administer, manage, and sell the Estate Properties, including the Premises. See attached Exhibit 7 and

Exhibit 11. Because plaintiff is empowered to administer, manage, and sell the Premises pursuant to court orders, plaintiff has a superior right to possession.
The evidence shows that the right to the premises was determined by the Geauga County Probate Court in a series of court orders after the report of a special master. Defendants are living in the Premises without proof of color of title, and in violation of court orders, and a writ of restitution should issue to the Estate. The evidence shows that reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion, and even viewing such evidence most strongly in favor of the defendants, reasonable minds can agree that defendants are not the title holders for the Premises, and plaintiff has a right to present possession of the Premises.
C. The Court should grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment
because plaintiff followed the statutory procedure for an eviction notice pursuant to R.C. § 1923.04(A).
The Court should grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment because plaintiff is entitled to possession of the Premises and properly followed all of the requirements to commence an action for forcible entry and detainer. R.C.

§1923.04(A) requires that before commencing an action for forcible entry and detain, the party seeking possession of a premises must:
notify the adverse party to leave the premises ... three or more days before beginning the action, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by handing a written copy of the notice to the defendant in person, or by leaving it at the defendant's usual place of abode or at the premises from which the defendant is sought to be evicted.
The notice itself shall contain the following language in a clearly visible manner: "You are being asked to leave the premises. If you do not leave, an eviction action may be initiated against you. If you are in doubt regarding your legal rights and obligations as a tenant, it is recommended that you seek legal assistance." Id. Once a party has followed through with the R.C § 1923.04(A) notice requirements, that party may bring an action for eviction under the same. Here, plaintiff followed all of the statutory requirements to bring an action for forcible entry and detainer. First, plaintiff served the defendants with an eviction notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, on June 28, 2023. See attached Exhibit 12 and Exhibit 3. Second, the notice was served at least three days before plaintiffs filed an action for forcible entry and detainer, which was filed in this Court on August 9, 2023. Id. Third, plaintiff served this notice at the Premises that plaintiff is seeking to

evict the defendants from. Id. Finally, the eviction notice included the mandated statutory language in printed, bold lettering. Id.
The evidence attached and incorporated shows that there is no genuine issue of material fact that plaintiff properly served defendants with an eviction notice under R.C § 1923.04(A). Therefore, this Court should grant plaintiffs Motion for Partial Summary Judgment in its favor.
IV. CONCLUSION
In conclusion, this Court should grant plaintiff's Motion for Partial Summary Judgment because the evidence attached and incorporated shows that there is no genuine issue of material fact that the Estate is the title cwner of the Premises, the Estate is entitled to present possession of the Premises, and plaintiff has followed all applicable procedures required in a action for forcible entry and detain. Therefore, plaintiff is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law, and a writ of restitution should issue.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
A copy of the foregoing Motion for was served by electronic mail this 25 day of January 2024, upon the following:
Brian Green Sean Burke Signature Square !! , Suite 220 25101 Chagrin Blvd. Beachwood, Ohio 44122 bgreen@shaperolaw.com sburke@shaperolaw.com Attorney for Defendants
Matthew Rolf (#0075116) Attorney at Law Matt Rolf Attorney LLC 13111 Shaker Square, Suite 304 Cleveland, Ohio 44120 T: (216) 666-2299 / F: (440) 226-8030 m-rolf@mattrolfattorneylle.com
