ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

3. THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN NOT ACCEPTING PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT'S MYRON JACKSON'S COMPLAINT FILED ON SEPTEMBER 7, 2012.

4. THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT FOR THE DEFENDANT-APPELLEES

ISSUES PRESENTED

1. WHETHER THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN NOT ACCEPTING PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT'S MYRON JACKSON'S COMPLAINT FILED ON SEPTEMBER 7, 2012.

2. WHETHER THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT FOR THE APPELLEES

INTRODUCTION

On September 6, 2012 a hearing on the within matter was held at which their new Plaintiff Counsel's appearance was entered and a verbal Leave to Plead was granted on behalf of Plaintiff Myron Jackson. Pursuant to said oral permission, on Friday, September 7, 2012, Myron Jackson's Complaint was filed and served upon Defendant-Appellee's Counsel at their deposition of Byron Jackson taken that same day.. The Clerk of Court docketed said Complaint on Monday, September 10, 2012; and, on October 16, 2012 his deposition taken by Defense Counsel, John Stalzer, at the offices of Reminger and Reminger. [Byron Jackson's deposition was taken by the defense on September 7, 2012 when Myron Jackson's Complaint was delivered to the defense at their counsel's offices above]. Hence, at the October 16, 2012 deposition, Myron Jackson was asked numerous questions by Defense Counsel about his "complaint" cf. page 12; line 19; page 16; line 25; and, page 17; lines 1 & 2. There was a delay of four days from the time of the trial court's oral Leave to Plead grant for Myron Jackson to file his complaint, September 6, 2012, and the grant's docketing, September 10, 2012 by the clerk's office.

On July 12, 2013, the trial court granted the Defendant-Appellee's Motion for Summary Judgment from which this appeal is taken.

STATEMENT OF THE CASE AND FACTS

Continental Management Company is a for profit corporation operating in the state of Ohio. City of Shaker Heights for the Carlton House Condominium Association; and, it and its agent Defendants, are engaged, according to its Website, in the management of community associations, condominium associations, homeowner associations and commercial property associations all over the country.

Continental Management Company has offices in Topeka, Kansas, Miami Florida, Celebration, Florida, Southfield, Boca Raton, Florida, Michigan, Kalamazoo, Michigan, Virginia Beach, Virginia, Hollywood, California, Culver City, California, Texas as well as Ohio and thus has considerable impact on interstate commerce.

On or about July 31, 2009, Gina Brus and/or Jeanne Laveglia operating pursuant to the authority given them as agents of Continental Management Company by its owner/manager, Jack Moir, and its president Marge Moir, made a false police report alleging that a purportedly "abandoned vehicle" was on property managed by them at 16100 Van Aken Boulevard on behalf of the Carlton House Condominium Association..

The allegedly "abandoned vehicle" was in actuality the 1992 Mercedes owned by the Jackson family, including Myron Jackson, titled owner; and, Byron Jackson, beneficial owner. And, they, at all times relevant herein were residents of 16100 Van Aken Boulevard in Unit Number 402 and their vehicle was legitimately parked in its designated parking space at said premises.

The call was, hence, an act of constructive eviction of the Jackson family in violation of Ohio Revised Code § 5321 prohibiting such without going through court process invoking-the-penally of actual damages along with reasonable attorneys fees.

Defendants made numerous false allegations of unit problems including plumbing leaks during the period January, 2009 through and including July, 2011, in order to harass and intimidate the plaintiff residents in order to unduly and illegally enter and inspect their residence.

Plaintiffs and Defendants agree that the Jackson Family including Myron, Byron, Wanda and Wanda (daughter) Jackson reside or have resided at 16100 Van Aken Boulevard in Unit No. 402 since July, 2007. The parties further agree that said residence is managed by the Continental Management Company and Carlton House Condominium Association. Beyond these two points, the parties have failed to come to any agreement. Essentially, all of the averments in Plaintiffs' Complaints are in dispute. The most recent point in controversy arose in Defendants' Reply in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment that:

:"...this allegation of some sort of "debt collection" is entirely false and without support in the Record. Defendants are the management company and the owners association of a condominium building. … These Defendants have never attempted to collect any debt from the Plaintiffs through any court proceedings."

It is unbelievable that Defendants and their Counsel would make such an incredulous statement when Defendant-Appelles' Attorney is or was also their Counsel of Record in a Foreclosure proceeding in this very same Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas. A court speaks through its docket Plaintiff-Appellant Final Pre-Trial Statement. Attachment No. 1 was a partial copy of the Docket in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court case no. CV 08-647135. The Plaintiff in that case is Carlton House Condominium Unit Owners Association and the Defendant is Dr. Byron Jackson. Case No. CV 08-647135 is a Foreclosure case and Defendant-Appellees' Counsel entered his appearance on July 15, 2008. So, for him to make the assertion above, on behalf of his clients, is at the least disingenuous; and, at worst, a blatant misrepresentation of the facts. Given then, this assertion of 'no debt collection' activity, Plaintiff-Appellants' must remind Defendant-Appellees' of the letter written on their behalf on April 8, 2009 (see Attachment No. 2 of Plaintiff-Appellants' Final Pre-Trial Statement.). Hence, it had become imperative that this particular fact in dispute be emphasized by Plaintiffs.

Another Defendant-Appellee fabrication that, at this point, must be rebutted is Defendants' statement that "… car with expired plates owned by Plaintiff, or a relative of Plaintiff, was towed because it was parked improperly and it appeared to be abandoned." That misstatement belies Defendant's asserted 'policy' determination that it initiated police action generally for all vehicles parked privately on its property that have expired tags. In truth, the towing of Plaintiffs' vehicle was quite selective, malicious and intentional. Attachment No. 3 to Plaintiff-Appellant's Final Pre-Trial Statement showed a vehicle parked in the same area as was Plaintiffs' that had expired plates with the license number, ENA 3854. Through Attachment No. 3 of the aforesaid Final Pre-Trial Statement, it can be seen that the aforesaid vehicle with the same expired plates was in the same spot on December 30, 2012 as it was on May 1, 2013. This fact begs the question in terms of the Defendants' efficiency in towing vehicles, parked on private property, away from public view. Hence, the Plaintiffs' contention that the towing of their vehicle was a retaliatory act motivated by mendacity and performed pursuant to illegal debt collection activity. In support of Plaintiffs' case, the following witnesses were to be called: Myron Jackson; Byron Jackson; Wanda Jackson (Plaintiffs' Wife/Mother); Wanda Jackson (Plaintiffs' Daughter/Sister);Gina Brus; Address unknown at this time; Alonzo Tucker, Address unknown at this time.

ARGUMENT

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR:

1. THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN NOT ACCEPTING PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT'S MYRON JACKSON'S COMPLAINT FILED ON SEPTEMBER 7, 2012.

As stated in the Introduction, the day before Plaintiff-Appellant Myron Jackson filed his Complaint, on September 7, 2012, her received oral permission from the trial court judge at the September 6, 2012 hearing. That Complaint was hand delivered to Defendant-Appellee's Counsel at the deposition of his son, Byron Jackson, on September 7, 2012. Defendant-Appellees thus had actual notice of all the averments in Plaintiff-Appellant Myron Jackson's Complaint on that date. That is the real purpose of service requirements. The fact that the Defendant-Appellees had such notice is corroborated by the repeated questions of Plaintiff-Appellant Myron Jackson that were based on his Complaint at the deposition taken of him on October 16, 2012. The brief delay of the Clerk of Court in docketing said Complaint on Monday,

September 10, 2012, does not vitiate the Complaint, itself. For some reason, the trial court had Mr. Myron Jackson refile his Complaint in as "Amended" on June 13, 2013 and had him pay another court cost for same. Why it did this is unfathomable but should not deprive Mr. Jackson of being a party to the within action.

This Court of Appeals itself has provision for such instances in its Rule of Appellate Procedure, Rule 4 (C) which states:

A notice of appeal filed after the announcement of a decision, order, or sentence but before entry of the judgment or order that begins the running of the appeal rime period is treated as filed immediately after the entry.

This commonsense approach, given clerical unpredictability, should be followed here.

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR:

2. THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT FOR DEFENDANT-APPELLEES

Going to the Defendant-Appellees' summary judgment motion, such is only granted if the Court finds pursuant to Civil Rule 56 (C) that: 1) there are no genuine issues of material fact that would make a trial necessary; 2) the party making the motion for summary judgment is entitled to judgment under law; and, 3) the evidence demonstrates that reasonable minds can only conclude in favor of the party filing the motion for summary judgment, Sullins v. Raycom Media, Inc., et al., 2013 Ohio 3530; 2013 Ohio App. LEXIS 3648 (8th Ohio Dist.); Kelly vs. Drosos, 2013 Ohio 2535; 2013 Ohio App. LEXIS 2508; Mitnaul v. Fairmount Presbyterian Church, (2002) 139 Ohio App. 3d 769; 778 N.E. 2d 1093 (8th Ohio Dist.). It is also important in such a consideration that the Court determine whether there are issues that need to be heard through the trial process. In doing so, the Court does not weigh issues of fact. Rather, when considering a summary judgment motion, the Court must look at the facts in a way most favorable to the party that has not asked for summary judgment, Countrywide Home Loans v. Nichpor (2013), 136 Ohio St. 55; Dresher v. Burt, (1996) 75 Ohio St. 3d 280. For instance, the Court may review the pleadings, depositions and any interrogatories. Further, the Court of Appeals reviews Summary Judgments de novo, Grafton v. Ohio Edison Co., (1996) 77 Ohio St. 3d 102; 671 N.E. 2d 241 In the instant case, the depositions (included as an attachment to Defendants' summary judgment motion) point out many issues in controversy such as who called the police to tow Plaintiff's car?; why were police called?; who owned the car?; who used the car?; who suffered losses through the loss; of the car? how much were they? (eg., see Defendants' deposition and the resulting answers); where exactly was the car when it was towed; and, what were the circumstances under which it was towed? Hence, there were many issues of fact in controversy when the trial court erroneously dismissed this action through Summary Judgment, see also Bank of America, N.Z. vs. Mark, 2013 Ohio 3575 (12 Ohio Dist.).

Another controversial point involves who owned the condominium? (also see Exhibit A); who lived in the condominium?; how long had they lived there?; and, what were the parking rights entailed with tenancy? - a tenancy that began in June of 2007-two years before the Defendants maliciously had Plaintiffs' car towed by the police on or about July 31, 2009. In addition, there are other corollary issues involved with this constructive eviction in conjunction with making the false police report (see Exhibits B1 and B2 of Plaintiff-Appellants' Final Pre-Trial Statement.). In this vein, the Court should note that the reporting individual asserting the "abandoned car" pretext was Defendants' agent, "Jeanne E. Laveglia." Ms. Laveglia, was the one and the same person who initiated intimidating police involvement in an alleged "plumbing" problem - another 'problem' which turned out to be non-existent. In correction, then, this Court applies the standard that the trial court should have applied, viewing the facts in the case in the light most favorable to the non-moving party and resolving any doubt in favor of the nonmoving party, (1983) Viock v. Stowe-Woodward Co 13 Ohio App. 3; 467 N.E. 2d 1378. There were thus still "genuine issues as to material facts that existed, (1977) Temple v. Wean United, Inc, 50 Ohio St. 2d, 317; 364 N.E. 2d 267.

Further, the trial court erred in not granting Plaintiff-Appellants motion for a default judgment against Defendant-Appellees pursuant to Civil Rule 55 of the Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure inasmuch as the Plaintiff-Appellants were entitled to such judgment as a matter of law. This is because Plaintiff-Appellants served Defendant-Appellees with documents for proof of claim for discovery several times on November 30, 2010, on December 7, 2010, on December 16, 2010; and, on January 3, 2011; and, also on August 19, 2011, as well as on October 4, 2011. Despite this, Defendant-Appellees refused to answer. They were thus non-responsive to multiple requests for answer and for discovery. All documents were sent registered U.S. mail with return receipts and witnessed and notarized by independent notary publics which were received and signed by Defendant-Appellees. Hence, the trial court erred in not granting the Plaintiff-Appellants' demand for default judgment pursuant to their demand.

In short, Defendant-Appellees' actions, taken altogether, amounted to an unlawful effort to collect an alleged debt (again see Exhibit A of above referenced Plaintiff-Pre-Trial Statement) and seek reprisals against Plaintiffs. So, although Defendant-Appellees say the foreclosure matter has no relevancy here in their summary judgment motion, said foreclosure currently under national review for its lawfulness, was the underlying motive for their unfair debt collection and underhanded actions. Far from being "frivolous," the basis for the Plaintiffs' complaints, then, cry out for vindication as articulated in the legal remedies set forth below and for which justice, equity and fairness require a trial.

1. Ohio Revised Code § 1309.625. Remedies for Secured Party's Failure to Comply with Chapter - UCC 9-625

a. If it is established that a secured party is not proceeding in accordance with this Chapter, a court may order or restrain collection, enforcement, or disposition of collateral on appropriate terms and conditions.

b. Subject to divisions (C), (D), and (F) of this section, a person is liable for damages in the amount of any loss caused by a failure to comply with this Chapter; loss caused by a failure to comply may include loss resulting from the debtor's inability to obtain or increased costs of alternative financing.

2. Fair Debt Collection Practices Act as amended by Pub. L. 109-351 Sections 801-802, 120 Stat. 1966 (2006) (FDCPA), 15 U.S.C. Sections 1692

§ 802 Congressional Findings and Declaration of Purpose

i. There is abundant evidence of the use of abusive, deceptive, and unfair debt collection practices by many debt collectors. Abusive debt collection practices contribute to the number of personal bankruptcies, to marital instability, to the loss of jobs, and to invasions of individual privacy.

§ 806 Harassment or abuse

A debt collector may not engage in any conduct the natural consequence of which is to harass, oppress, or abuse any person in connection with the collection of a debt. Without limiting the general application of the foregoing, the following conduct is a violation of this section:

(1) The use or threat of use of violence or other criminal means to harm the physical person, reputation, or property of any person.

§ 807 False or misleading representations

(1) The false representation or implication that the debt collector is vouched for, bonded by, or affiliated with the United States or any State, including the use of any badge, uniform, or facsimile thereof.

(4) The representation or implication that nonpayment of any debt will result in the arrest or imprisonment of any person or the seizure, garnishment, attachment, or sale of any property or wages of any person unless such action is lawful and the debt collector or creditor intends to take such action.

(5) The threat to take any action that cannot legally be taken or that is not intended to be taken.

(7) The false representation or implication that the consumer committed any crime or other conduct in order to disgrace the consumer.

(10) The use of any false representation or deceptive means to collect or attempt to collect any debt or to obtain information concerning a consumer.

§ 808 Unfair practices

A debt collector may not use unfair or unconscionable means to collect or attempt to collect any debt. Without limiting the general application of the foregoing, the following conduct is a violation of this section:

(6) Taking or threatening to take any nonjudicial action to effect dispossession or disablement of property, if -

(A) there is no present right to possession of the property claimed as collateral through an enforceable security interest;

(B) the property is exempt by law from such dispossession or disablement

(11) Fair Housing Act as Amended - Ohio Revised Code § 4112.02 Unlawful Discriminatory

Practice

It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:

(H) For any person to do any of the following:

(11) ...deny or make unavailable housing accommodations because of race, color, religion, sex, military status, familial status, ancestry,

Disability or national origin;

(11) Discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of … furnishing facilities, services, or privileges in connection with the ownership, occupancy, or use of housing accommodations, …

Because of race, color, religion, sex, military status, familial status.

5. 42 U.S.C.S. § 1983 Civil Rights Act (April 20, 1871), also see Monroe v. Pape, 365 U.S. 167 (1961) provides:

Every person who under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action at law, Suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress …

Also, the Civil Rights Attorney's Fees Awards Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C. 1988, provides that a party injured pursuant to Section 1983 is entitled to recover attorneys' fees. Further, the Supreme Court has held that Section 1983 is best characterized as a tort action for the recovery of damages, and therefore held that the appropriate statute of limitations to be adopted is the state statute applicable to written contract actions Wilson v. Garcia, 471 U.S. 261 (1985).

Thus, besides their actual-damages, as a result of the Defendant's harassing and abusive actions, the Plaintiff's have suffered loss of dignity as human beings, bankruptcy filing, loss of reputation, disgrace before their community as well as been subject to criminal prosecution through false representations under "color of law" with state action and the misuse of governmental police powers. Again, as a result of the Defendants' actions, the Plaintiffs deserve an-opportunity to be heard on their grievances - grievances which, not just here at the local and state level, but even at the national level have been recognized as being real and viable (again see Plaintiff-Appellant Pre-Trial Statement Exhibit A). The Plaintiffs, as persons under the U.S. and Ohio Constitutions, as well as individuals with rights pursuant to the above described laws and statutes protecting them as resident tenants, debtors and human beings, do not deserve to be burnt twice by Defendants and/or those acting under their authority as it were.

CONCLUSION

Myron G. Jackson and Byron G. Jackson, who are unschooled in law ask that the Court take judicial notice of the enunciation of principles as stated in Haines v. Karner, 404 U.S. 519, wherein the Court had directed that those who are unschooled in law making pleadings and/or complaints shall have the courts look to the substance of the pleadings rather than the form, including the related documents attached therewith, in the above referenced case.

In light of the foregoing, Plaintiff Appellants ask the Court to reverse the trial court's decision granting Defendant-Appellees' their Motion for Summary Judgment and remand the case to the trial court for a decision consistent with its opinion.

Respectfullly submitted,

/s/ [Signature]

BYRON JACKSON

/s/ [Signature]

MYRON JACKSON

SERVICE

A copy of the foregoing Appellant's Brief was served upon Martin T. Galvin and John B. Stalzer, Reminger, Co., L.P.A., Attorneys for Defendant-Appellee, 101 West Prospect Avenue, Suite 1400, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-1093 this, by regular U.S. Mail, this 27 day of AUGUST, 2013.

Respectfullly submitted,

/s/ [Signature]

BYRON JACKSON

/s/ [Signature]

MYRON JACKSON
