ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR

1. FIRST ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR

"THE TRIAL COURT ERRED AS A MATTER OF LAW WHEN IT DETERMINED THAT NO GENUINE ISSUE OF FACT EXISTED ON ANY ESSENTIAL ELEMENT OF APPELLANT'S CLAIMS FOR RELIEF AND ENTERED SUMMARY JUDGMENT DISMISSING THE APPELLANT'S COMPLAINT."

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

Plaintiff-Appellant, Alice Stone brings this appeal from a judgment entered by the Lorain County Court of Common Pleas. Determining that there were no genuine issues of material fact, the trial court granted summary judgment in favor of the appellees, Edwin Cazeau and Cathryn Nixon. Based upon that determination, the trial court ordered that "[j]udgment is entered in favor of defendants, Edwin Cazeau and Cahteryn (sic) Nixon, and the complaint of the plaintiff is dismissed with prejudice." (Docket no. 27, judgment of February 27, 200, Tab A.)

Alice Stone filed her complaint against the appellees on October 6, 2005. She claimed, among other things, that they had twice wrongfully ousted her from Edwin's residence that she and Edwin Cazeau occupied. As a consequence of such conduct, Alice claimed that her property in Edwin's residence had been wrongfully detained and converted by Edwin and his daughter, the appellee Cathryn Nixon. Believing that Edwin's residence was about to be sold and that her interests in the premises would be jeopardized, Alice joined the real estate brokerage firm of Prudential Preferred Properties as a co-defendant

Edwin Cazeau and Cathryn Nixon promptly answered Alice's complaint. They admitted in their responsive pleadings that Cathryn, acting as an attorney in fact for her father, had twice changed the locks on her father's residence; thus excluding Alice from the place she and Edwin had resided. (Answer of defendants Cazeau and Nixon and counterclaim of Edwin Cazeau, at P 38, 4, docket entry no. 7). Edwin factually asserted that only after the locks had been changed, he then issued a statutory eviction notice on Alice Stone. Id at P 42, 43.

Edwin and Cathryn counterclaimed against Alice, seeking damages for trespass to Edwin's residence as well as conversion of his furniture and the like. They also brought a claim seeking statutory civil relief for the alleged criminal conduct of Alice in returning and entering the residence to recover her personal property and clothing.

On September 15, 2006, the appellees filed a motion for summary judgment claiming that Alice could prove no set of facts essential to her claims for relief. (Docket entry no. 18). Alice responded with her affidavit, exhibits and brief in opposition. Docket entry no. 24.

The trial court granted the motion for summary judgment and dismissed Alice's complaint. Docket entry no. 27, Tab A. The Court then directed that the case proceed to court mediation and a jury trial on the appellees' claims for relief.

However, on April 6, 2007 the appellees filed a Civ. R. 41(A) dismissal of their claims against Alice. Four days later, on April 10, 2007, the trial court filed an entry reciting that it had entered summary judgment of dismissal of Alice's complaint and that the appellees had voluntarily dismissed their claims against her. Concluding that all claims of the parties had been resolved, the court entered a final judgment. (Docket entry no. 32, Tab B.) On the following day, the court granted the appellees motion to dismiss Alice's claim against the co-defendant, Prudential Preferred Properties. (Docket entry no. 33.)

Alice Stone timely brought her appeal.

STATEMENT OF FACTS

It can not be said that Alice Stone and Edwin Cazeau were simply acquaintances. In fact, they were more than house companions; they had become consorts to each other.

Alice had lived with Edwin at his residence in Texas between the years 2000 and 2001. In February, 2003, Edwin sold his Texas residence and returned to Lorain County where he lived with Alice at her East 34th street home in Lorain, Ohio until April, 2004. In the meantime, Edwin purchased a residence at 815 Red Hill Drive in 2003 and he and Alice spent months purchasing materials and remodeling the residence.

In the late fall of 2004, Alice moved into Edwin's Red Hill Drive residence and did so at the request of Edwin. There she and Edwin remained until February, 2005 when she was excluded from the residence.

In January of 2005, Edwin Cazeau's health began to deteriorate. He appointed Alice Stone as his attorney in fact by means of a durable power of attorney. Edwin was then hospitalized at the Cleveland Clinic on February 13, 2005.

According to Alice, when she returned to Red Hill on February 21, 2005 she found that the doors had been chained and she could not get into the residence. It was there that she found two sheets of paper taped to the doors. Each notice was directed to Alice and signed by appellee Cathryn Nixon. Plaintiff's Civ. R. 56 affidavit at exhibits one and two, docket entry 24. The notices, dated that very day of February 28, declared that she was trespassing, forbade Alice to enter the house, that "All lock (sic) have been changed", that the Lorain Police Department had been contacted and that she, Cathryn Nixon, had "POA for All of my father's affairs, medical and other." Id.

According to Alice, she retimed to Red Hill the following day, removed the locks and began removing her personal property. But when she returned that same evening, the door locks had again been changed and she could not get the rest of her belongings. (Plaintiff's Rule 56 affidavit at P 9.)

Alice again gained entrance to Edwin's residence on February 27 and while packing things, met Lorain Police Officers and the appellee, Cathryn Nixon. The police officers did not direct Alice to leave. Indeed, according to the appellees, the policemen indicated that they "could not preclude [Alice] from access to the property at 815 Red Hill Drive and instructed [Edwin Cazeau and Cathryn Nixon] in fact to file for eviction." (Answer and counterclaim at P 4, Docket entry 7.)

On the following day, Alice returned to Red Hill only to find that the door locks had been once again been changed. Alice did find a statutory notice to quit the premises dated that same day and signed by Jonathan Rosenbaum as the attorney for an Edward Kearney, a person who had no interest in the property or authority to ask her to quit the premises. (Plaintiff's Rule 56 Affidavit at P 11, 12 and exhibit three.) According to the appellees, they again changed the door locks on March 4.

Alice affirmed that at that point in time she still had belongings in the residence, including suits and dresses, craft materials and personal papers, which were kept by the appellees and never returned.

ARGUMENT OF LAW

Alice Stone filed her complaint against the appellees claiming that they had twice wrongfully ousted her from the premises that she and appellee Edwin Cazeau had occupied. She complained that in doing so, her property had been wrongfully detained and converted by Cazeau and Nixon.

Appellees successfully contended in the trial court that Alice could establish no facts to support her claims. But appellee Edwin Cazeau presented no facts affirmatively establishing that he did not oust Alice from the residence without first resorting to process of law provided for in Chapter 1923 of the Ohio Revised Code. Indeed, Edwin Cazeau affirmed in his Civ. Rule 56 affidavit that he did direct his daughter, Cathryn, to remove Alice from the Red Hill premises.

Assignment of Error Number One

"THE TRIAL COURT ERRED AS A MATTER OF LAW WHEN IT DETERMINED THAT NO GENUINE ISSUE OF FACT EXISTED ON ANY ESSENTIAL ELEMENT OF APPELLANT'S CLAIMS FOR RELIEF AND ENTERED SUMMARY JUDGMENT DISMISSING THE APPELLANT'S COMPLAINT."

Standard of Review

The propriety of a trial court's decision to grant summary judgment is a matter of law. For that reason, appellate review is de novo and no deference is given the trial court's decision. Lorain Co. Bd. of Commrs. v. United States Fire Ins. Co. (1992), 81 Ohio App.3rd 263, 267. However, an appellate court's review is limited to those evidentiary materials submitted in the trial court. Loescher v. Clark Material Handling Co. (Sept. 16, 1998), 9th Dist No. 97CA006856, unreported.

Like the trial court, an appellate court must view the facts in a light most favorable to the non-moving party. Grafton v. Ohio Edison Co. (1996), 77 Ohio St. 3rd 102, 105. For that reason, any doubt must be resolved in favor of such party. Horton v. Harwick Chem. Corp. (1995), 73 Ohio St.3rd 679, 686. And any resolution of a controversy by means of summary judgment is disfavored where there is a realistic possibility, as distinguished from a probability, that genuine issues of fact will require jury consideration. Tucker v. Webb Corp. (1983), 4 Ohio St.3rd 121. The role of the court at this stage is to determine whether issues of fact remain to be resolved by the court or jury. Dresher v. Burt (1996), 75 Ohio St.3rd 280, 293. It is the existence or nonexistence of facts and not their truth that a court must determine.

The Dresher Court said that "the moving party can not discharge its initial burden under Civil Rule 56 simply by making conclusory assertions that the nonmoving party has no evidence to prove [her] case." It was for Edwin Cazeau and Cathryn Nixon to affirmatively show that there existed no evidence of a specific fact on an essential element of Alice Stone's claims. Black v. Consentino (1996), 117 Ohio App.3rd 40.

The essential point for the court is "whether the evidence offered [in Rule 56 practice] presents a sufficient disagreement upon any essential element ..., or is it so one-sided that one party must prevail as a matter of law." Anderson v. Liberty (1986), 477 U.S. 242, 251-252.

Discussion

Alice Stone brought this litigation claiming that she had been wrongfully locked out from a residence that she then occupied with the appellee, Edwin Cazeau. And that having been constructively evicted without process, some of her belongings were then wrongfully distrained by Edwin Cazeau and his daughter, Cathryn Nixon who was acting as his agent and attorney in fact. Though she had been locked out three times and had to twice gain entry to retrieve her belongings, she was not permitted to get the rest of her personal property which was then wrongfully converted by Edwin and his daughter.

There is no dispute that Alice Stone and Edwin Cazeau were consorts or house companions. And there is no question that Alice lived with Edwin at his Red Hill residence in Lorain for a substantial period of time. It was not disputed that she was a social guest of Edwin, if not more. Cazeau Rule 56 affidavit at P 7-8.

Alice Stone's status in Cazeau's Red Hill residence was that of an occupant staying at the will or sufferance of Cazeau. While Cazeau could revoke or terminate Alice's at will occupation of his property, he was statutorily prohibited from distraining her property and access to the residence without process.

However, Alice Stone was afforded the protections of Revised Code Chapter 1923. Cazeau could only regain sole occupancy from his tenant at sufferance through the use of statutory forcible entry and detainer process. See RC § 1923.02(A)(5) & (6) indicating that eviction proceedings must be brought " [W]hen the defendant is an occupier of lands or tenements, without color of title and the complainant has the right to possession of them; or [I]n any other case of the unlawful and forcible detention of lands and tenements."

It is axiomatic that self help and distraint of a tenant's property are obviously unlawful. Even a tenant at sufferance can only be ejected by statutory process of forcible entry and detainer. Coward v. Fleming, 89 Ohio App. 485. Hausser and Van Aken, Ohio Real Estate Practice (2nd ed.) § 57

According to her sworn testimony, Alice Stone had been first excluded from the 815 Red Hill Drive residence on February 21, 2005. See Alice Stone Affidavit at P 8-10. By her own writing, Defendant Cathryn Nixon has admitted that she excluded Alice Stone. See exhibits one and two of Alice Stone Affidavit, saying to Alice "[D]o not enter the house [.]" and that "[All] lock (sic) have been changed." And this wrongful exclusion occurred not once but on three distinct occasions. Alice Stone Affidavit.

What's more, Cathryn Nixon wrote notices to Alice telling her that she was a trespasser. Cathryn also changed the locks to the residence several times, all to oust Alice. And on February 28, 2005, Edwin Cazeau issued Alice a statutory notice to quit the premises in three days but the door locks had already been changed.

RC § 5321.15 provides that a person entitled to immediate possession of a residential dwelling can not exclude a tenant from the premises and can obtain possession only as provided in RC Chapter 1923. A person that violates RC § 5321.15 is liable for all damages caused as well as reasonable attorney's fees.

Alice Stone's personal property had been wrongfully converted on each of the successive times she had been excluded from the Red Hill residence. Ohio courts have repeatedly defined conversion as the "wrongful control or exercise of dominion over property belonging to another inconsistent with or in denial of the rights of the owner." Kraft Constr. Co. v. Cuyahoga Cty Bd. of Commrs., (1998), 128 Ohio App.3rd 33, 41, citing to Joyce v. General Motors Corp. (1990), 49 Ohio St. 3rd 93. It must have been obvious to Cazeau's agent and attorney in fact, Cathryn Nixon, that Alice Stone had property in the Red Hill residence and that she, Alice, was attempting to reclaim it, only to be locked out again by Cathryn. Under these circumstances, Cazeau and his agent, Cathryn Nixon, had exercised "wrongful control and dominion over property" of Alice Stone "inconsistent with and in denial of [her] rights as the owner."

Granted there may be a disagreement concerning damages. But in the summary judgment arena a trial court may not weigh the credibility of the witnesses and any evidence going to an amount of damages. In any event, "[O]nce conversion has been established the plaintiff is entitled to at least nominal damages." Scales v. Progressive Builders (Nov. 4, 1982), Cuyahoga App. No. 44597. Clearly, the appellees had committed acts of wrongful conversion. They are, at the least, liable to Alice Stone for nominal damages. And that is a matter for a jury to decide.

CONCLUSION

The court erred as a matter of law in coming to its conclusion that Alice Stone could present no facts on any essential element of her claims for relief. For such reason the grant of summary judgment must be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings.

Respectfully submitted,

THE SPIKE & MECKLER LAW FIRM

Attorneys at Law

By: /s/ [Signature]

JAMES R. COUCH, #0002871

Attorney for Appellant

1551 West River Road, North

Elyria, OH 44035

(440) 324-5353 Telephone

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

A true copy of the foregoing appellant's merit brief was hereby served upon the parties to this action by mailing a copy of the same, via U.S. mail, postage prepared, this 25th day of July, 2007, upon the following:

Jonathan E. Rosenbaum

230 Third Street

Suite 104

Elyria, Ohio 44035

Attorney for Appellees

Edwin Cazeau and Cathryn A. Nixon

and

Prudential Preferred Properties

Party Defendant

9775 Gore Orphanage Road

Amherst, Ohio 44001

THE SPIKE & MECKLER LAW FIRM

Attorneys at Law

By: /s/ [Signature]

JAMES R. COUCH

Attorney for Appellant

Alice Stone
