ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

I. The Trial Court committed reversible error as a matter of law when it granted the Defendant-Appellee's, State Auto Insurance Companies' ("State Auto"), Motion for Summary Judgment in light of the fact the Plaintiff-Appellants' ("Siemientkowskis"), submitted valid and timely claims of malicious prosecution and libel covered under their Homeowners Policy.

II. The Trial Court erred when it granted State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment after being presented with irrefutable evidence based upon Attorney John Lind's testimony, as a witness under oath, that Ohio Farmers voluntarily incurred additional legal costs to defend itself against malicious prosecution and damage to Ohio Farmers' reputation.

III. The Trial Court erred when it granted State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment after being presented with irrefutable evidence that the trial judge at the 2323.51 Hearing and the Eighth District Court of Appeals upon appeal upheld the award Ohio Farmers' voluntarily brought upon itself to defend against allegations of malicious prosecution and damage to reputation.

IV. The Trial Court committed reversible error as a matter of law when it granted State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment as to all of the Siemientkowski's claims when State Auto never addressed the Siemientkowski's claim of bad faith in its Motion for Summary Judgment, the determination of bad faith lying within the province of the jury.

V. The Trial Court erred when it granted State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment before the completion of the discovery process prior to the scheduled cutoff date of November 1, 2005.

VI. The Trial Court committed reversible error in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment when issues of material fact exist to be decided by a jury.

VII. The Trial Court committed reversible error in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment on the disputed allegation the Siemientkowskis failed to notify State Auto in a timely fashion.

VIII. The Trial Court committed reversible error in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment on the disputed allegation the Siemientkowskis intentionally and voluntarily incurred losses.

IX. The Trial Court committed reversible error in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment based on State Auto's interpretation that any violation of R.C. 2323.51 is a violation of the "Penal Code"

X. The Trial Court committed reversible error in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment as to the jury question of whether or not State Auto breached its contract with the Siemientkowskis.

XI. The Trial Court committed reversible error in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment, in the absence of a written memorandum from the trial judge at the 2323.51 Hearing, that all or a part of the award of attorney fees were based on Ohio Farmers' allegations of malicious prosecution and/or damage to reputation.

APPELLATE JURISDICTION

The Appellants, Ronald J. Siemientkowski and Sara L. Siemientkowski, seek reversal of the Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court Order dated October 21, 2005 and journalized on October 25, 2005 granting Appellee's, State Auto Insurance Companies, Motion for Summary Judgment.

Accordingly, The Eighth District Court of Appeals has jurisdiction over Appellants' Appeal pursuant to Ohio Civil Code § 2505.03. On October 21, 2005 the Honorable Judge Nancy R. McDonnell granted judgment to Appellee State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment, a final order subject to appeal.

STATEMENT OF ISSUES FOR REVIEW

On October 21, 2005 and journalized on October 25, 2005, the lower court granted State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment. See Exhibit 2.

The lower court erred in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment as a matter of law when it was clear from the Siemientkowskis' Homeowners Policy, the Siemientkowskis had absolute coverage against claims of malicious prosecution and libel under the contract between the parties. See Exhibit 3. The lower court ignored convincing evidence that Ohio Farmers voluntarily incurred additional legal costs to defend itself against malicious prosecution and damage to reputation. State Auto has absolute liability as set forth in the terms of the Homeowners Policy under its Special Coverage Endorsement. Coverage for malicious prosecution and damage to reputation under the Homeowners Policy is absolute and the determination of whether the Siemientkowskis claims are covered lie with the jury.

The issue of bad faith is a tort claim to be decided by a jury precluding the granting of summary judgment on the issue of bad faith by the trial court. In an action alleging bad faith denial of insurance coverage, the Siemientkowskis are entitled to discover claim file materials containing attorney-client communications related to the issue of coverage that were created prior to the denial of coverage.

Many fact questions for the jury precluded summary judgment by the trial court, that is, the disputed allegations of whether the Siemientkowskis filed a timely claim, intentionally and voluntarily incurred losses, if State Auto is liable for coverage of part or all of the attorney fees awarded to Ohio Farmers, etc.

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

On May 24, 2004 within the terms of their Homeowners Policy, the Siemientkowskis submitted to State Auto a claim for $ 29,455.74 and other costs to cover a judgment awarded to Ohio Farmers Insurance Company against the Plaintiffs on May 5, 2004 and the Siemientkowskis' costs to defend themselves. See Exhibit 4. The judgment against the Siemientkowskis included Ohio Farmers' voluntarily incurred legal expenses, money Ohio Farmers admitted was well worth the expense, for what Ohio Farmers viewed and testified under oath as to the Siemientkowskis' acts of malicious prosecution and damage to Ohio Farmers' reputation.

The personal liability incurred by the Plaintiffs was neither expected nor intended. The Plaintiffs submitted their legitimate claim to State Auto as provided for under their Homeowners Policy on May 24, 2004. Instead of processing Plaintiffs claim in good faith, State Auto, through Kip Reader of Ulmer Berne LLP, issued a threat through the United States mail on June 3, 2004 of additional financial ruin to the Plaintiffs. See Exhibit 5. After attempts to file a claim with State Auto failed, the Siemientkowskis filed a complaint in Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court on May 27, 2005 against State Auto alleging breach of contract, failure to exercise good faith in the processing of a claim and bad faith denial of insurance coverage.

Lacking any good reason, the lower court on October 21, 2005 granted State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment which was journalized on October 25, 2005 without a Memorandum of Opinion. On October 31, 2005 the Siemientkowskis filed a Request for a Memorandum of Opinion from the lower Court and was denied on December 6, 2005. Exhibit 8.

Based upon the Siemientkowskis arguments and exhibits contained in their Opposition to State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment and the Homeowners Policy, the lower court had no legitimate basis in law or fact for granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment.

STATEMENT OF FACTS

On May 3, 2004 a hearing was held to consider Ohio Farmers' Motion for Attorney Fees as Sanctions for Frivolous Conduct. Frivolous conduct was and is not covered by the Homeowners' Policy issued to the Siemientkowskis by State Auto.

State Auto argues that the Siemientkowskis failed to file a claim against its Homeowners Policy depriving State Auto of the right to defend the Siemientkowskis at that 2323.51 hearing or to negotiate a settlement before a judgment and therefore the Siemientkowskis forfeited their right to make a claim under the Homeowners Policy.

Prior to the hearing on May 3, 2004, the Siemientkowskis had no claim against their Homeowners Policy for malicious prosecution, abuse of process, libel, slander or defamation of character. It wasn't until the hearing when John K. Lind provided sworn testimony under oath that their claim arose. See Exhibit 6, Transcript of Proceedings.

John Lind, Esq. representing Ohio Farmers Insurance Companies, at the 2323.51 Hearing on May 3<rd>, 2004 before Judge Eileen Gallagher, Siemientkowski, et al. v. Moreland Homes. See Exhibit 6, Transcript pp 15, 16, 26 describes Ohio Farmers' losses in the following manner:

...it's abuse of process or malicious prosecution under 2323.51.

...which outlines the elements of abuse of process and malicious prosecution.

...Robb v. Chagrin Lagoons Yacht Club. The citation is 75 Ohio State 3d 264 which outlines the elements of abuse of process and malicious prosecution.

...and the reputation is worth the money to defend.

State Auto's Home Owner Policy issued to the Siemientkowskis clearly states:

The definition of "bodily injury" is amended to include personal injury. Personal injury means injury arising out of one or more of the following offenses:

1. false arrest, detention or imprisonment, or malicious prosecution;

2. libel, slander or defamation of character; or

3. invasion of privacy, wrongful eviction or wrongful entry.

Special Coverage Endorsement. The Home Defender Homeowners Policy. State Auto Insurance Company. See Special Coverage Endorsement, Part A -- Change in Definition contained in and part of the Homeowners Policy. Exhibit 3 which was previously filed as a complete policy document attached to Plaintiffs' Original Complaint and also as an exhibit to State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment.

Ronald J. Siemientkowski entered Fairview Hospital on May 5, 2004 the same day that Judge Gallagher's judgment entry was journalized. Surgery to remove two fungating cancerous masses, lymph nodes and Ronald's ascending colon took place on May 11, 2004. Contrary to the mean spirited and crude remark from State Auto's attorney that the Court should view this fact as an attempt to gain sympathy and should be ignored, it is a fact and a justifiable reason why the Siemientkowskis didn't file their claim sooner. Notwithstanding this fact, the Siemientkowskis made a timely claim.

The Siemientkowskis sent a letter notifying State Auto of the then known claim for loss on May 24, 2004 giving State Auto plenty of time to participate in the appeal process. Exhibit 4. State Auto did not write a claim rejection letter, did not elect to help in the appeals process, did not elect to negotiate a lesser judgment or call to discuss the claim but instead had their attorney send a letter to threaten the Siemientkowskis with additional financial harm if the Siemientkowskis pursued their valid homeowners' insurance claim. Exhibit 5.

For State Auto to maintain that it was necessary for the Siemientkowskis to have informed State Auto of the 2323.51 hearing has no merit as a claim against the Homeowners Policy did not exist at that point in time. The claim only became evident when John K. Lind, under oath, testified as to why Ohio Farmers felt justified in voluntarily running up its attorney fees.

State Auto's Homeowners Policy clearly provides coverage for the claims against the Siemientkowskis as outlined under oath by Ohio Farmers Attorney. The Hearing transcript of May 3, 2004 speaks for itself as absolute evidence that the Siemientkowskis were sanctioned for covered claims. The sworn testimony of John Lind is evidence and must be treated as evidence.

On the face of the Homeowners Policy, the Siemientkowskis have absolute coverage for malicious prosecution, libel, slander and defamation. Since this fact of State Auto's liability is in dispute, the lower court erred in granting summary judgment instead of turning the question over to the jury to decide.

Where provisions of insurance contract are reasonably susceptible to more than one interpretation, Court of Appeals must construe provision strictly against insurer and liberally in favor of insured. Auto-Owners Ins. Co. v. Brubaker, (Ohio App. 6 Dist. 1994), 93 Ohio App.3d 211, 638 N.E.2d 124. 93 Ohio App.3d 211, 638 N.E.2d 124. King v. Nationwide Ins. Co. (1988), 35 Ohio St.3d 208, 519 N.E.2d 1380,

State Auto did not present any evidence whatsoever that the Siemientkowskis knew prior to the May 3, 2004 hearing that John Lind, Attorney for Ohio Farmers Insurance Company, would be asserting against the Siemientkowskis, to justify their grossly inflated legal fees, the defense of malicious prosecution, libel, slander and defamation, all of which are covered by State Auto's Homeowners Policy issued to and paid for by the Siemientkowskis.

State Auto presented absolutely no evidence whatsoever that the Siemientkowskis knew prior to the hearing that they had coverage and decided not to involve State Auto, and thus, the Siemientkowskis voluntarily incurred losses for which State Auto may have been able to overcome or minimize. This is a fact question for the jury and not a basis for the granting of Summary Judgment.

Without any actual proof of the Siemientkowskis culpable state of mind, it must be defined as an accident that the Siemientkowskis found themselves being sanctioned for abuse of process, malicious prosecution and damage to reputation. The state of the Siemientkowskis' mind and whether they believed they had standing to include Ohio Farmers is a fact question for the jury. The Siemientkowskis at all times believed and still believe that Ohio Farmers belonged in the Moreland Homes case.

State Auto did not address or dispute the bad faith claims in its Motion for Summary Judgment. If the lower court had any grounds to grant a summary judgment to State Auto, it should have been a partial summary judgment with the bad faith claim pending, allowing the Siemientkowskis the right to a trial by jury on the claims of bad faith.

State Auto alleged that the Siemientkowskis were not covered as they were in violation of a penal code and therefore excluded from coverage. State Auto failed to present evidence of the exact penal code violation that would exclude coverage.

If State Auto's Homeowners Policy does not cover the Siemientkowskis then the policy is fraudulent as to coverage under the special coverage endorsement for malicious prosecution, libel, slander and defamation as these claims by the very nature of their elements can never withstand State Auto's definition of accident.

If State Auto's Homeowners Policy does not cover the Siemientkowskis, then the coverage under the special coverage endorsement is fraudulent and as such an insured can never successfully present a claim.

State Auto is in breach of contract, not only with the Siemientkowskis, but with all its policyholders for providing coverage for which a policy holder can never successfully present a claim.

ARGUMENT

The Appellants, Ronald J. and Sara L. Siemientkowski include as if rewritten here all their Motions and Exhibits of record which are before the lower court.

ASSIGNMENTS I, II and III.

State Auto issued a Homeowners Policy to the Siemientkowskis which included a Special Coverage Endorsement.. See Special Coverage Endorsement, Part A -- Change in Definition. Exhibit 3.

As a matter of law and fact, the Siemientkowskis have coverage under a Special Coverage Endorsement to their Homeowners Policy for

1. false arrest, detention or imprisonment, or malicious prosecution;

2. libel, slander or defamation of character; or

3. invasion of privacy, wrongful eviction or wrongful entry.

Whether the Siemientkowskis' claims against their Homeowners Policy fall under that coverage is a question for the jury and not to be disposed of by Summary Judgment.

It is a fact backed by irrefutable evidence that Ohio Farmers voluntarily incurred outrageous attorney fees to defend itself against the Siemientkowskis' alleged acts of malicious prosecution and damage to reputation and used these allegations in support of their frivolous claims. See Exhibit 6, Transcript.

Lind as witness, under oath, for Ohio Farmers states Ohio Farmers had meetings and decided to spend whatever it takes to defend their reputation. "...reputation is worth the money to defend. And that's what they decided to do. I spoke to them about this. There were meetings about this." Transcript, p. 26, l. 9-14. Based upon Lind's testimony under oath, the Siemientkowskis were heavily sanctioned by Judge Gallagher and that decision was upheld by the Appellate Court.

State Auto had no reasonable justification in law or fact for refusing to satisfy the Siemientkowskis' claim. As a matter of fact State Auto never sent a rejection letter. Instead State Auto sent the Siemientkowskis a letter through its attorney threatening the Siemientkowski with additional financial harm.

In Sanderson v. Ohio Edison Co. (1994), 69 Ohio St.3d 582, 635 N.E.2d 19, the Supreme Court cited its holding in Willoughby Hills v. Cincinnati Ins. Co. (1984), 9 Ohio St.3d 177, 9 OBR 463, 459 N.E.2d 555. In Willoughby Hills, the court held that where the insurer's duty to defend is not apparent from the pleadings, but the allegations state a claim which is potentially or arguably within the policy coverage, or there is some doubt as to whether a theory of recovery within the policy coverage has been pled, the insurer must accept the defense of the claim. In Sanderson, the court stated that an insurer has an absolute duty to defend under certain conditions:

"An insurance policy which states that the insurer is obligated to defend in any action seeking damages payable under the policy against the insured, even where the allegations are groundless, false or fraudulent, imposes an absolute duty upon the insurer to assume the defense of the action where the complaint states a claim which is partially or arguably within policy coverage." Id.

State Auto cannot be granted summary judgment based on cases where attorney fees were not awarded for malicious prosecution. This case is different from all those cases State Auto is relying on as a defense because different facts exist. In this case, Ohio Farmers elected to stay in the case for two years to defend their reputation. "… reputation is worth the money to defend. And that's what Ohio Farmers decided to do. Lind spoke to Ohio Farmers and there were meetings in which they decided to deliberately stay in a case for the sole reason to defend their reputation. The Court must recognize the testimony of John Lind, under oath admitting that he advised his client, Ohio Farmers to file an action for frivolous conduct immediately upon receipt of being sued in State Court, but Ohio Farmers had meetings … Decided to go the expense … To defend Ohio Farmers reputation.

ASSIGNMENTS IV AND V

State Auto's response to the Siemientkowskis' good faith and legitimate claim for damages resulting from the 2323.51 Hearing was the threat of even more sanctions. It is the normal course of business for an insurer to directly respond to its insured's claim by providing the insured with claim forms in order to learn the facts, investigate and finally make a determination. State Auto's response to the Siemientkowskis' claim goes beyond bad faith and represents an intentional failure by State Auto to perform its contractual obligation.

Please be advised that your misconduct in regard to State Auto may subject you to sanctions under provisions of Rule 11 and Ohio Revised Code § 2323.51. State Auto hereby notifies you that it reserves the right to assert a claim for sanctions at the appropriate time. See Exhibit 5, Letter dated June 3, 2004

Such a response to an insured by the insurer is terrifying and malicious. No insured expects to get such a response from its insurer to a legitimate claim covered under any insurance policy.

It is clear that State Auto, in bad faith, chose to intimidate the Siemientkowskis in order not to honor a valid claim against their policy. Good faith would have required some sort of civil response to a claim rather than a threat of economic damage.

Cause of action arises for tort of bad faith when insurer breaches it duty of good faith by intentionally refusing to satisfy an insured's claim where there is either no lawful basis for refusal coupled with actual knowledge of that fact or intentional failure to determine whether there was any lawful basis for such refusal. Motorists Mut. Ins. Co. v. Said, (Ohio 1992), 63 Ohio St.3d 690, 590 N.E.2d 1228,

State Auto's response to the Siemientkowskis' lawful claim against its Homeowners Policy was malicious in nature and had no lawful basis for refusal coupled with actual knowledge of that fact.

State Auto had more than a fair opportunity to represent the Siemientkowskis in the appeals process but chose to threaten the Siemientkowskis instead. State Auto has no grounds whatsoever to a summary judgment based on State Auto's bad faith acts toward the Siemientkowskis for which State Auto offered no defense.

State Auto chose to threaten the Siemientkowskis with sanctions rather than assist in the appeals process or negotiate a settlement with Ohio Farmers. State Auto has no grounds to complain about the size of the judgment for which they are liable and cannot be granted a summary judgment based on their own decision not to honor their policy provisions.

In an action alleging bad faith denial of insurance coverage, the insured is entitled to discover claims file materials containing attorney-client communications related to the issue of coverage that were created prior to the denial of coverage. Boone v. Vanliner Ins. Co. (2001), 91 Ohio St.3d 209. The Supreme Court held that documents showing an insurer's bad faith failure to settle should be discoverable and were not worthy of protection under the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine. Moskovitz v. Mt. Sinai Med. Ctr. (1994), 69 Ohio St.3d 638.

As outlined and filed in their October 17, 2005 Motion to Compel, the Siemientkowskis were denied their right to discovery claim materials. The trial court erred in light of State Auto's bad faith acts to terminate discovery when it granted summary judgment to State Auto. Furthermore, the receipt of these discovery document requests were necessary for the Siemientkowskis' need and right to also amend the complaint.

ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR VI, VII, VIII, IX, X AND XI

Assignments of error VI through XI deal with genuine issues of material fact which as a matter of law precludes summary judgment. The trial court erred by granting summary judgment where there are genuine issues of material fact.

The Supreme Court of Ohio has stated:

"'Civ.R. 56(C) specifically provides that before summary judgment may be granted, it must be determined that: (1) No genuine issue as to any material fact remains to be litigated; (2) the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law; and (3) it appears from the evidence that reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion, and viewing the evidence most strongly in favor of the party against whom the motion for summary judgment is made, that conclusion is adverse to that party.' Temple v. Wean United, Inc. (1977), 50 Ohio St.2d 317, 327, 4 O.O.3d 466, 472, 364 N.E.2d 267, 274.

Moreover, '* * * upon appeal from summary judgment, the reviewing court should look at the record in the light most favorable to the party opposing the motion.' Campbell v. Hospitality Motor Inns, Inc. (1986), 24 Ohio St.3d 54, 58, 24 OBR 135, 138, 493 N.E.2d 239, 242." Osborne v. Lyles (1992), 63 Ohio St.3d 326, 327.

There is ample evidence that the Siemientkowskis notified State Auto "as soon as is practical" of a claim. State Auto outlined the insureds' duties after a loss and the Siemientkowskis were in compliance with the terms of the policy. Yet, State Auto claims it was prejudiced by the Siemientkowskis' failure to comply with the policy's notice condition. State Auto was given ample time to negotiate a settlement and/or to represent the Siemientkowskis on appeal. The question of whether State Auto was disadvantaged by the timeliness of the Siemientkowskis' filing of their claim under their policy provisions is a genuine issue of material fact for determination by the jury.

State Auto failed to show that injury caused by the Siemientkowskis itself was expected or intended in order to avoid coverage on basis of exclusion for expected or intentional injuries; it is not insured's intentional act or conduct which controls, but whether insured intended injury to result. Physicians Ins. Co. of Ohio v. Swanson, (Ohio 1991), 58 Ohio St.3d 189, 569 N.E.2d 906.

The Siemientkowskis never dreamt in their wildest dreams that they would be punished for initiating a claim in good faith against Ohio Farmers. The Siemientkowskis never dreamt that anyone would view their actions as malicious prosecution, libel, slander and defamation of character let alone further punish the Siemientkowskis by awarding outrageous attorney fees for voluntary expenses incurred by a defendant that spent that money admitting that it was well worth the expense.

In order for exclusion for intentional acts to apply, insurer must show not only that insured intended act, but also that insured intended to cause harm or injury. Physicians Ins. Co. of Ohio v. Swanson, (Ohio 1991), 58 Ohio St.3d 189, 569 N.E.2d 906.

No where in its pleadings did State Auto show by clear and convincing evidence that the Siemientkowskis intended to cause harm or injury to Ohio Farmers by naming Ohio Farmers as a defendant in Siemientkowski v. Moreland Homes.

Likewise, in Farmers Ins. Group v. Sessions (1980), 100 Idaho 914, 607 P.2d 422, the court held that for an exclusion for injuries intentionally caused to operate, the insurance company must demonstrate that the insured acted "* * * for the purpose of causing injury in the person or property in which it resulted." Physicians Ins. Co. of Ohio v. Swanson, (Ohio 1991), 58 Ohio St.3d 189, 569 N.E.2d 918, 607 P.2d at 426. In so holding, the court rejected the insurer's argument that the policy requires nothing more than an intentional act for the exclusion to operate. The court stated as follows:

"* * * Such an interpretation would radically alter the scope of insurance company liability. On an exclusion such as this one, the company would have no liability for the baseball intentionally thrown which accidentally breaks the neighbor's window, the intentional lane change which forces another driver into the ditch, or the intentionally started trash fire which spreads to the adjacent lot. Countless other examples are imaginable, in all of which the insurance company could rely on such an exclusion to avoid liability because the course of conduct of the insured involved intentional acts. * * *" Id. at 917, 607 P.2d at 425.

In Colonial Penn Ins. Co. v. Hart (1982), 162 Ga. App. 333, 291 S.E.2d 410, the evidence presented at trial showed that the insured had fired at a vandal in an attempt to frighten him. The court framed the issue as follows: "* * * the issue in the instant case was not whether Mr. Rice intentionally fired the shotgun. This fact is uncontroverted. Rather, '[t]he only issue … was whether the [bodily injury] was "either expected or intended from the standpoint of [Mr. Rice]" * * *' Transamerica Ins. Co. v. Thrift-Mart, 159 Ga. App. 874, 881 (285 S.E.2d 566) (1981)." (Emphasis sic.) Id. 162 Ga. App. at 335, 291 S.E.2d at 412. The court upheld the jury's finding that the injury to the vandal was not intentional, and thus the exclusion was inapplicable.

It is an uncontroverted fact that the Siemientkowskis named Ohio Farmers as a defendant in Siemientkowski v. Moreland Homes. The issue here is whether by the intentional naming of Ohio Farmers as a Defendant, the Siemientkowskis expected or intended from their standpoint to cause harm or injury resulting from frivolous conduct, malicious prosecution or damage to reputation of Ohio Farmers.

Whether the Siemientkowskis intentional act of naming Ohio Farmers as a defendant was for the express purpose of causing harm or injury is a genuine material fact for determination by the jury.

State Auto has not supplied any evidence that the Siemientkowskis violated any "Penal Code or Codes" and is without merit and therefore cannot operate to award summary judgment.

Based on the Siemientkowskis absolute coverage under their Homeowners Policy it was a genuine issue of material fact for the jury to determine the question of State Auto's breach of contract.

Absent a written memorandum from the trial judge at the 2323.51 hearing it was a genuine issue of material fact for the jury to determine when liability ended for frivolous conduct and liability began for malicious prosecution and damage to reputation to determine actual liability of State Auto for damages under the Siemientkowskis' Homeowners Policy.

The trial court erred by granting summary judgment where there are so many genuine issues of material fact to be determined by the jury.

CONCLUSION

State Auto has failed to provide any evidence for which summary judgment could be granted. The Siemientkowskis request this Honorable Court to overturn the lower court's decision in granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment and to return this case for further proceedings.

State Auto failed to offer any defense for the claims of bad faith in their Motion for Summary Judgment and therefore cannot be granted Summary Judgment on the issue of bad faith. State Auto through its bad faith conduct failed to mitigate its liability under the Homeowners Policy coverage and intentionally inflicted emotional distress upon its insureds.

Appellants further request this Honorable Court to:

(1) overturn the lower court's decision granting State Auto's Motion for Summary Judgment and send the case back to the lower court for a trial by jury;

(2) send the case back to the lower court for a trial by jury on the Siemientkowskis' bad faith claims against State Auto;

(3) compel State Auto to supply requested discovery; and,

(4) grant the Appellants the cost in filing ($ 125.00) and reasonable costs (to be determined) associated with the bringing of this appeal.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ [Signature]

Ronald J. Siemientkowski

P. O. Box 33085

North Royalton, OH 44133

216-807-0131

Pro Se

/s/ [Signature]

Sara L. Siemientkowski

P. O. Box 33085

North Royalton, OH 44133

216-807-0131

Pro Se

AFFIDAVIT

STATE OF OHIO

COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA

Now come Ronald J. Siemientkowski and Sara L. Siemientkowski nee Spisak, being first duly sworn, depose and state as follows:

We are the Plaintiff - Appellants in the Eighth District Court of Appeals Case No. CA 05 087299 and make this affidavit in support of our appeal from the Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court's judgment granting State Auto Insurance Companies' Motion for Summary Judgment, Case No. 05-563979.

The Siemientkowskis, believing their claims against the herein named Defendant-Appellee, State Auto Insurance Companies, to be firmly established and based on a good cause action, bring their appeal before this Court in good faith.

The Siemientkowskis confirm that the Exhibits attached to their Appeal are true and exact copies of the documents concerning Plaintiff-Appellants' claims as set forth in the herein captioned case and those contained in and are a part of the pleadings before the lower court as noted in the body of their appeal and in the Table of Exhibits.

The Siemientkowskis certify that the statements contained in their Appeal are true and are not interposed for the purpose of delay.

AFFIANTS FURTHER SAYETH NAUGHT.

BY: /s/ [Signature]

Ronald J. Siemientkowski

/s/ [Signature]

Sara L. Siemientkowski

SWORN TO BEFORE ME and subscribed in my presence this 31<st> day of March 2006.

Jeffrey C. Bier

NOTARY PUBLIC

1

THE STATE OF OHIO,

COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA.

GALLAGHER, J.

TRANSCRIPT OF PROCEEDINGS

Whereupon, the following proceedings were had before the Honorable Judge Eileen Gallagher in Court Room No. 23-A, The Justice Center, Cleveland, Ohio, on Monday, May 3rd, 2004, upon the pleadings filed heretofore.

APPEARANCES:

Ronald J. and Sara L. Siemientkowski, pro se

on behalf of the Plaintiffs,

John Lind, Esq.,

on behalf of Defendant Ohio Farmers,

Amanda Leffler, Esq.,

on behalf of Defendant Third Federal,

Colleen DelBalso, Esq.,

on behalf of City of North Ridgeville,

Paul E. Blevins, Esq.,

on behalf of Defendant Moreland Homes.

JuliAnn M. Adams, RPR

Official Court Reporter

Cuyahoga County, Ohio

2

MONDAY MORNING SESSION, MAY 3, 2004

PROCEEDINGS

-

THE COURT: Who is left in this case now; Moreland Homes, correct, Third Federal?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Yes your Honor.

THE COURT: And are Gilgenbach, are they still in or not?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: We were not allowed to add them.

THE COURT: There was a number of things filed late last week, the Court hasn't received them yet. I noticed them on the docket this morning, however. Where does everything stand now?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: My understanding that we're here for hearing first on the attorneys' fees for Ohio Farmers, which we would like to present our side, our defense for that.

THE COURT: Okay. By the way, Julie, we're on the record in case 471206, Ronald Siemientkowski versus Moreland Homes Incorporated, et al.

3

MR. LIND: Your Honor, you were asking about what is pending?

THE COURT: Yes.

MR. LIND: I believe the plaintiffs' motion to file a cross-claim against Ohio Farmers was denied.

THE COURT: Correct.

MR. LIND: There is a similar motion pending against Moreland Homes. Those are the only two current or recently filed matters that I'm aware of.

MRS. LEFFLER: Your Honor, Third Federal also filed a motion for summary judgment.

THE COURT: Is there someone here who is under subpoena to dismiss defendant's employee?

MS. DELBALSO: Colleen DelBalso on behalf of the City of North Ridgeville. Mr. Lovece was improperly served by certified mail. We have already been dismissed. Mr. Lovece also has been dismissed and the claims brought up in the Siemientkowskis' cross-claim are just simply restating the very claims that we were dismissed for.

4

THE COURT: Mr. Siemientkowski, was there a reason why you subpoenaed this person for a settlement conference?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Yes, your Honor, so he could give testimony as to the reason why he approved a grade that did not meet the Ohio Builder's Officials Association Codes which is a misdemeanor here in the State of Ohio.

THE COURT: Well, first of all, it occurred in another jurisdiction over which this Court has no jurisdiction, and I suspect that long by now the statute has run on that, any potential criminal activity you allege.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: It would give validity as to the reason why we went ahead and included Ohio Farmers in this particular suit.

THE COURT: But Ohio Farmers is out.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Yes, they are, but we are having a hearing for attorney fees, your Honor.

5

THE COURT: All right. For Ohio Farmers.

MR. LIND: Yes, your Honor, John Lind.

THE COURT: Good morning, Mr. Lind. Do you want to put on any testimony?

MR. LIND: Yes, I'm going to be testifying, actually.

Shall I use numbers or letters to mark exhibits? I have some billing statements.

THE COURT: Either/or.

The DEFENDANT OHIO FARMERS, to maintain the issues on its part to be maintained, called as a witness, JOHN LIND, who being first duly sworn, was examined and testified as follows:

MR. LIND: I do, your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay. Let me clarify. What are you going to ask this man whom you subpoenaed?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Okay. What we're going to ask him is who gave him permission to approve a grade that was not the minimum standards under Ohio law that is called for by the City of North Ridgeville.

6

We also have Mr. Hoy, (sp) a surveyor who went out and surveyed the property after the approval, that will prove the flow of water and pooling around the foundation that is damaging to the foundation of the property as well as pooling millions of pathogens from the leach field that was sitting right on top of the property on to the property each time it rained.

THE COURT: What relevance does any of that testimony or potential testimony have to this motion hearing?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: What that has to do with this motion is the fact that Ohio Farmers had a duty under Title 39 of the Ohio Insurance Codes to investigate our claim, come out, send an investigator, take a look.

THE COURT: We're way beyond that, Mr. Siemientkowski. We're way beyond that. We're here for attorney fees only.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: That's correct. We are establishing the fact that Ohio Farmers should have been in this case and it was not frivolous for us to add them. You should deny Ohio Farmers any type of attorneys' fees and

7

Ohio Farmers could have negotiated out of this case for a very minimum amount of money, or at least performing on their bond a long time ago. Their attorneys had kept them in this case for a long time, and unnecessarily so.

MR. LIND: I'll take that as an admission.

THE COURT: Mr. Lind, do you have anything to say?

MR. LIND: May I walk around? I have to have exhibits marked.

(Defense Exhibit 1 was marked.)

MR. LIND: Your Honor, I'm handing to the Court what has been marked as Defense Exhibit 1. This is a summary statement of the entire billing from my law firm relating to both the United States District Court action that was earlier dismissed sua sponte by Judge Manos, which was appealed, as well as this matter that was filed.

There will be some need for explanation and some modifications to this paperwork because it's not complete, and I did notice that there are some adjustments, minor

8

adjustments that need to be made.

If you look at Defendant's Exhibit 1, this is a record that is also maintained in the ordinary course of our business and reflects billing on a monthly basis reviewed by me for services that I've rendered as an attorney before the invoices are generated and issued to the client.

If you look at Page 1 of this exhibit you'll see the first subtotal is $ 705. That is part of what is going to be needed to be adjusted because the actual unbilled invoice relating to this case exceeds the $ 705.

The next summary that you go down is 1,568. That relates to the United States District Court action, so we're not claiming that here in this motion for attorneys' fees.

The Court file will reflect that this Common Pleas action was filed on or about May 21st of 2002. And if you'll notice on Page 4 of this Exhibit 1 towards the bottom of the page there is an entry of June 12, 2002, and that's where we proceed with the state court complaint.

THE COURT: Where?

9

MR. LIND: Page 4. It's an entry of $ 62.50. That's where we had received the state court complaint that we're involved in now.

So anything above that is something that we're not considering for purposes of this claim for fees.

THE COURT: All right.

MR. LIND: Exhibit 1 is going to reflect that we have spent a total, I mean me, my client and my time of $ 42,256.83 combined on the United States District Court case as well as this state court case. $ 12,501.09 of that total --

THE COURT: 12,500 and what?

MR. LIND: $ 1.09 related to the United States District Court action. So we're actually talking about, according to this Exhibit 1, an amount of $ 28,513.74, subject to some adjustments because I found some things in this summary that need to be adjusted.

On November 18, 2002 I improperly billed on this file two-tenths of an hour relating to $ 28 relating to a different Ohio

10

Farmers case, so that needs to be deducted.

But in looking at this Exhibit 1, I also noticed that the unbilled portion is only $ 705.

I have an estimated bill which I'm going to mark as Defendant's 2.

(Defendant's Exhibit 2 was marked.)

MR. LIND: The estimated bill which is Defendant's 2 is a bill that I prepared at the end of the month of April in anticipation of the final preparation and the hearing today because in the motion for fees I'm entitled to collect reasonable value for services rendered in an effort to collect the fee. And you'll notice that the total amount of this estimated invoice is actually $ 2,035.

So the first entry, which is the unbilled portion of 705 actually needs to be adjusted to reflect the 2,035. To be fair, I've indicated here a May 3rd estimate of about half a day spent for the hearing and court time relating to the case. That, of course, will be subject to adjustment because we haven't completed the hearing yet.

If you look at Defendant's 1 you'll

11

also notice an entry of December 29, 2003. It was a double entry on that day of four-tenths of an an hour. It's on Page 16. The total summary of that month was $ 270. You'll notice there are two entries that are identical. And what happened was I corrected a typographical error on the entry but it wasn't deleted, it was added. So we have to subtract $ 60 from the bill.

When you make those adjustments, the total amount of attorneys' fees on this case is $ 29,755.74.

My billing rate started at $ 140 an hour for Ohio Farmers and was adjusted without my request by Ohio Farmers to $ 150. My former rate is $ 250 for surety companies. The standard rate in Ohio is approximately $ 150 for this kind of work.

I have been representing surety companies for over eight years. I represent construction contractors, trade contractors. I'm involved in jury trials. That's principally what I do for a living. As an outgrowth of that, because of the public projects I'm involved in, I also represent

12

surety companies and claims on bonds' nonperformance attended to my clients. In terms of my -- I have also enjoyed a direct relationship with sureties.

I have been an attorney admitted to the practice of law in New York City in 1989, practicing for 15 years. I took the Ohio Bar exam in 1990, was admitted to the Ohio practice of law on May 20, 1990.

I believe that the services I rendered are reasonable and customary and in proportion to the kind of work that was required by this particular case.

This should not have 29 defendants. In my opinion it makes the case completely unworkable. It's a bear to manage this file.

I brought the files in for your Honor to see the kind of paperwork that we've had to deal with.

I've got two documents in here I didn't make copies of that I would like to bring to the Court's attention. This is marked as Defendant's Exhibit 3. This is an internal fax I sent to Jim Walker relating to the initiation of the United States District

13

Court case and whether or not there was merit for them to press those claims forward. The claims are virtually identical, just in a different form and there was some cleaning up of the allegations because they were kind of confused in the United States District Court matter.

But the point is the Siemientkowskis were claiming that Jim Walker and Ohio Farmers did not conduct an investigation to their satisfaction. And our claim has always been the City of North Ridgeville official issues a notice releasing the lot from the bonded obligation of the City of North Ridgeville, that is sufficient because the obligee under our bond is the City, it is not the homeowner who ultimately purchases that property or owns that property.

And your Honor may recall in our motion for summary judgment our reply brief cited to an Eighth District Court of Appeals case. I believe it was Eighth District Court of Appeals specifically holding that as true. A surety company is not insurance, a surety company doesn't owe the obligation to the

14

homeowner, the surety owes the obligation to the obligee. If the obligee is willing to release that lot from the subdivision bond, that's as far as the surety company needs to go.

If the Siemientkowskis had a problem with the way the City of North Ridgeville did their work they can take that up with the city. But they never had standing to a assert the claim.

Your Honor, if I may, this document actually reflects, your Honor, early on in this litigation that the Siemientkowskis knew or had reason to know that City of North Ridgeville had released the bonded obligation on this lot.

On May 25th there was a Sun Herald news item about the Siemientkowskis' house. On June 1st the property was re-inspected and released, found to have been satisfactorily in compliance with the codes. It's not our obligation to make that determination, it's for the city to decide.

On June 6th Mr. Siemientkowski left a message with Ohio Farmers complaining about

15

grade on his property. It's our position he knew and had reason to know at the time he filed his initial lawsuit that he didn't have claim against us.

The claim in United States District Court, those are gone because the rules are different in federal court and we didn't have opportunity to press that with Judge Manos. However, when he re-filed making the identical claim, it's abuse of process or malicious prosecution under 2323.51.

Both of those analyses apply to this action. Abuse of process is filing proper process for an ulterior motive. And malicious prosecution is filing a baseless claim.

THE COURT: Did Judge Manos in his order of dismissal specifically address Ohio Farmers?

MR. LIND: No, he specifically addressed the federal agencies that were sued in that action and found that once the federal agencies dismissed were dismissed there was no federal question and since there was no diversity of citizenship or no federal question, he just sua sponte

16

dismissed the entire complaint.

Since you raised the issues I'm going to mark this June 6, 2001 letter.

(Defendant's Exhibit 4 was marked.)

-

MR. LIND: I'm showing the Siemientkowskis that which has been marked as Defendant's Exhibit 4 for identification.

This is a June 6, 2001 letter that I wrote to Jim Walker because we were contemplating filing a motion for sanctions against the Siemientkowskis in United States District Court, and it gives you understanding of the analysis of the federal standard versus the state court.

I want to call your Honor to citations regarding the -- there was a Supreme Court case called Robb v. Chagrin Lagoons Yacht Club. The citation is 75 Ohio State 3d 264 which outlines the elements of abuse of process and malicious prosecution.

And there is another case that is important here because we are dealing with a pro se party, Delaney, D-E-L-A-N-E-Y versus Cuyahoga County Metropolitan Housing

17

Authority. This is an Eighth District Court of Appeals case unreported, 1994 Ohio App LEXIS.

THE COURT: Ohio Appellate.

MR. LIND: LEXIS 2980. And in this case the Court held that pro se civil litigants are bound by the same rules and procedures as those litigants who retain counsel. They are not to be accorded greater rights and are to accept the results of their own errors. They may want to claim that they are pro se and should be given a little bit more leeway.

The fact is, they are the ones that decided to sue. They are the ones that bear the obligation to investigate before they initiate a claim, and they need to understand the standard by which the behavior of Ohio Farmers and the duty of Ohio Farmers should be judged.

I'd also like to draw this Court's attention to the docket here in Cuyahoga County where the Siemientkowskis have I think I counted 20 items on the docket. But the Court can take judicial notice of the Court

18

docket here in Cuyahoga County where the Siemientkowskis as pro se plaintiffs fully know what it is they are supposed to do and how they are supposed to conduct their litigation.

My initial intuition about the 29 defendants that are named in this lawsuit was that this was a fishing expedition. I didn't want to reach that conclusion if it was just my personal opinion, but I received a letter, your Honor, from the Siemientkowskis. Let's see. I think you granted our motion for summary judgment on December 19, 2003. We didn't receive the notice until January 9th, 2004. And, in the interim Mr. Siemientkowski solicited negotiations towards settlement. I know typically at trial you're not supposed to talk about these things, but I think it's an issue that needs to be discussed in the context whether or not the Siemientkowskis have operated in good faith or engaged in frivolous conduct. Mr. Siemientkowski in the colloquy, it's his opinion we stayed in this lawsuit too long, that we should have tried to get out sooner.

19

Your Honor, they made claims against us not just on the bond but if you look at the complaint they alleged conspiracy, fraud and bad faith of a surety company. Beyond the confines of the $ 1,000 risk on the subdivision bond, the subdivision bond, you post a $ 10,000 bond for the entire subdivision, in $ 1,000 increments apply to each lot, as they sell they roll over to new lots. All Ohio Farmers had risk on to North Ridgeville was $ 1,000.

The Siemientkowskis sued, alleged that company engaged in conspiracy to defraud and harm and injure them. They claim the full value of their home, which is a quarter million dollars, and treble damages, for 700 and change and then ten million dollars in punitive damages. They put a number on it, but that's fine.

The claims against Ohio Farmers required Ohio Farmers to defend this lawsuit when it became clear or should have been clear to them that they did not have a claim. Discovery was fully completed and they had no evidence whatsoever of conspiracy. They should have voluntarily dismissed us from the

20

lawsuit. They elected instead to continue the proceeding. In the initial, one might say when did the frivolous conduct begin; was it after discovery and they persisted?

Our position is it shouldn't be because in the federal lawsuit you have an obligation to make a voluntary disclosure of all of your evidence before you even have case management, the Rule 26 disclosures. At that point in time they had no evidence whatsoever of any fraud or conspiracy. The appropriate thing for the Siemientkowskis to have done would have been to sue their builder, just the builder if they have problems and defects or alleged defects in their home.

If they find in the course of the discovery in that case that there is some complicity, whether a public official or surety you can add defendants. But these folks just jumped right out of the box with a scatter-shot approach.

And it's my opinion, your Honor, that they did this intentionally and willfully. They are soliciting, in December, 2003, they are soliciting me to go talk to an insurance

21

carrier to try to throw some money at them so I can avoid my client having to spend any more in attorneys' fees.

And I was insulted by that. And as a result of the granting of the motion we seriously considered filing to recover these expenses, and that's why we're here today, because this can't be tolerated in this court.

It's one thing for pro se litigants to come in to court because they are aggrieved and can't afford an attorney or want to do it themselves. That's fine. But litigants who have a docket sheet in this court as lengthy as it is, and I haven't checked the other counties, I think there is more ulterior motive, particularly when I'm being solicited to pay something directly to them when we have no obligation whatsoever. Nothing in the paperwork that suggests we owe a duty to them. Nothing in the law that suggests we have a duty to them, yet they persisted through all these years now of pressing these claims forward.

And, your Honor, I believe that the reasonable and customary fee has been proved

22

and I have nothing further to tell you.

THE COURT: Have a seat. Mr. Siemientkowski, would you like to examine Mr. Lind?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Yes. I would.

-

CROSS-EXAMINATION OF JOHN LIND

BY MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI:

Q. Mr. Lind, I know you had stated that they did not have an obligation to come out to the property when we had told them. For example here, the OBOA Codes, Section 102, the minimum standards, the purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection of life, limb, health, property, environment and for the safety and welfare of the consumer, general public and the owners and occupants of residential buildings regulated by this code. It also states under 106-4, as a penalty anyone violating any of the provisions of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. And each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed.

Now, we had alerted Ohio Farmers that their

23

bond was being misused. And that was given to them prior to us filing suits. We asked them to come out. We even showed them, we even gave them a newspaper article, as you say, about our grading, but 67 other properties were also not properly graded.

We're looking at Ohio Farmer's had a duty to come out and make sure that the longevity of a person's property lasts. As you know, the water should be -- okay, for example, the drainage --

THE COURT: Is there a question? Let's get to a question here, Mr. Siemientkowski.

Q. He knows as well as Ohio Farmers knows that there was a law being broken. He knows as well as Ohio Farmers knows that the Insurance Industry Title 39 required Ohio Farmers to fully investigate our claim. Had they fully investigated our claim, they would have sent somebody out to check; am I correct?

A. Surety is not insurance. There is a fundamental difference between a contractual obligation of a surety bond for performance of an obligation of a contractor according to the code, and it runs to the City of North Ridgeville to make the determination whether or not to call upon Ohio Farmers to step in and perform something in this case

24

attendant to the $ 1,000, or a part thereof, in order for the City of North Ridgeville to correct something the contractor left that was not correct.

Surety is not insurance. The obligation of an insurance company to not indemnify but to step in the shoes of and make good upon. That law is totally different than surety law.

Q. I disagree and I believe that the Ohio Supreme Court states in the Silbam versus AllState --

THE COURT: Get to a question here, Mr. Siemientkowski. Just because you disagree doesn't mean you get to testify at this point.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Fine, your Honor.

Q. As you know, Mr. Lind had testified that we were asking for a zillion dollars in this case from Ohio Farmers, okay. That simply isn't true. And if we could mark this Exhibit 1, it's a letter sent to Mr. lined requesting a settlement amount of $ 4,000, okay, which also we said that we would be open to negotiations. We were looking for Ohio Farmers to do their job under the Insurance Code, Title 39, come --

THE COURT: Let me interrupt you Mr. Siemientkowski. That will be

25

Plaintiff's Exhibit A.

(Plaintiff's Exhibit A was marked.)

Q. I want to point out we were not asking for all the monies that Mr. Lind was.

THE COURT: You have to ask a question, Mr. Siemientkowski.

Q. Did you go and take that offer to your client?

A. Yes.

Q. What did your client say?

A. No. My client was being accused of engaging in fraud and conspiracy. And I wasn't going to get into the details of this. I'm prepared. We had very serious discussions about this because I always encourage my clients to try to resolve as opposed to carry them forward. I negotiated against my own position as an attorney. But to me it's my obligation and that's how I enjoy such a good working relationship with my clients.

If we paid you a nickel, I don't care whatever disclaimers you put into the settlement agreement, this doesn't admit liability or anything based upon the kinds of allegations you were making against Ohio Farmers Insurance Company, the highest levels within that company authorized me to proceed to get summary judgment on this to disprove your allegations. They

26

were not going to pay a nickel beyond what they owed, and they owed you nothing.

By the virtue of this $ 4,000 demand you were showing that you wanted money above and beyond even what the nominal value was on the bonded obligation. You wanted something for the conspiracy. You wanted something for the claims of fraud and the claims of bad faith.

When you make that kind of an allegation against a company like Ohio Farmers, they take it extraordinarily seriously, and the reputation is worth the money to defend. And that's what they decided to do. I spoke to them about this. There were meetings about this.

Q. In other words, what you're saying to us is we do not have the right to recover our fees we had to go out so that we could prove to Ohio Farmers beyond a shadow of a doubt that the grading wasn't proper we hired Mr. Hoy.

Okay. We don't have -- what you're telling me is we don't have the right to recover those fees?

A. You have a claim, sir, against the City of North Ridgeville as to whether or not you believe as a citizen and a taxpayer that community, that they are properly performing their job function. They

27

have defenses to the extent they exercise their discretion to. The extent they are doing something beyond their discretion they have a potential liability to you as a homeowner. There is no obligation between Ohio Farmers and you as a homeowner.

The only thing that can happen in this relationship, this bonded relationship is if you're able to satisfy the municipality there is something wrong and Moreland Hills refuses to come out and fix it, then they can fix it themselves and ask Ohio Farmers to pay nowhere up above a thousand dollars. So if it cost $ 1,500 to fix it, they get a thousand dollars from us, which is the maximum amount of the bond, then they have to go to the contractor to recover whatever is over that. If it's only $ 750, then we pay the 750 bill.

That's the relationship, sir. I'm telling you you don't have a claim against Ohio Farmers.

THE COURT: I think the Court has made, stated very clearly that they have no claim against Farmers.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Your Honor, a couple more questions, please.

Q. Can Moreland Homes build a house in North

28

Ridgeville without the bond issued by your company?

A. The subdivision bond runs to the municipality, it's a $ 10,000 total amount, $ 1,000 per lot. That's the bond. I believe it's part of the court record as well. I think we attached it to the summary judgment. It rolls over; if you have a 50 unit subdivision, as they complete, it rolls over, attaches to the undeveloped lots. That's all it is, 10,000 maximum exposure. The City of North Ridgeville to step in on the final grading bond for a subdivision in this case.

Q. I asked you, can Moreland Homes without that grading bond build a house in North Ridgeville?

A. You'd have to ask the City of North Ridgeville.

Q. According to Code they cannot. So a bond is a very important part of the building of the construction process, something that a new home buyer relies on?

A. Okay. Which section of the code? Is that the administrative code or Revised Code when you say code, because there are certain instances in which a municipality has the right --

Q. That is the North Ridgeville codified ordinances.

29

A. Okay.

Q. They require a bond.

A. Okay.

Q. And that bond tells me that I'm going to have a final grade that's proper. When they decide that they are going to break the law they can only break the law if Ohio Farmers, or whoever is going to be their surety bond company, allows them to do so. That's why you're in this case is because you participated, you allowed them to do that.

THE COURT: Is there a question?

Q. Okay. In other words, why didn't Ohio Farmers come out and investigate the property?

A. Because Ohio Farmers was entitled to rely upon an official record issued by the appropriate official from the City of North Ridgeville that passed the final grade on this premises. There is no further duty on the part of Ohio Farmers, even if you complain, they fulfilled their obligation to the City of North Ridgeville as evidenced by the release and waiver because the official inspection of June 1 -- what was it, 2001?

MR. WALKER: 2000.

A. 2000, passed the inspection.

30

Q. So Title 39 of the Ohio Revised Code that requires the 3901-1-07(C)(4) requires, okay, an insurance company when a claim is brought against them to do a full investigation. A full investigation would have included them coming out to the house; am I correct?

A. Surety is not insurance. They are two totally different relationships. They are governed by different obligations.

Q. In the minds of the individual who is looking at a bond, he's looking at that as insurance that his property is going to be done properly and it is the mental state that is imposed by the contract by the bond, whether it's directly connected to the individual or not, it's the comfort, it's the feeling of security that is portrayed by that contract and they do have the duty and an obligation to come out and investigate claims especially if --

THE COURT: Is there a question? You can't keep giving speeches. he's here for cross-examination on the issue of his attorney fees on the reasonableness of those attorney fees to defend this lawsuit on behalf of his client. To go outside that scope, sir, is inappropriate at this time.

31

Q. During the federal case you had filed a brief with the appeals court and you stated that we had state claims; is that not correct?

A. I forget the exact words. I said this is more appropriately resolved in state court. I didn't see a federal question; no diversity, and I think you inappropriately sued federal agencies that had absolute immunity as relates to your claims. I was found correct by Judge Manos.

Q. I will state that as a self admission.

A. Not against my client but it was more appropriate in state court.

Q. I believe it was in relationship to your client.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: I do believe I have no other -- do you have any other questions, Sara?

Okay. This will be Exhibit B.

(Plaintiff's Exhibit B was marked.)

Q. This is a fax that we sent to Carrie Blair, CEO and president of Ohio Farmer's, and that was prior to filing the case informing Ohio Farmers of the misuse of their bond.

A. Right. Okay. Yeah, I remember seeing this.

Q. You remember seeing this?

32

A. Sure. Was this attached?

Q. Yes, that was.

A. Because I don't remember that. I do remember the cover letter though. Okay. You went right to the top.

Q. Right to the top.

As you probably know, we had had water damage due to the problems with the grade and with this we had alerted Ohio Farmers of the misuse of their grading bond. You don't feel that they had an obligation when we --

A. Well, I disagree. That's dated May 26th, right?

THE COURT: What year?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: May 25, 2000?

A. Same day as the Sun Herald article you faxed that into Ohio Farmers. The file was opened ultimately assigned to Jim Walker. By June 1st it passed the grade. It failed the first time and passed on the reinspection. When Jim Walker informed you of that, he regrettably denied your claim because they passed it. And he's entitled to rely on that official record. And the obligation runs to them, not to you. That you disagree with the conclusion of the City of North Ridgeville does not affect the

33

obligation of Ohio Farmers to step in and somehow do something to make sure the City of North Ridgeville is properly doing its job.

I know that's what you want this to be, but that's not the reality of it. If you have a problem with the City of North Ridgeville or the contractor, you go to them, and when somebody makes a determination that something more needs to be done and Moreland Homes refuses to come in and do it, then we have to step in, up to a liability of 1,000 bucks. That's all it is.

This is not three and-a-half years of litigation. This isn't $ 43,000 worth of expense.

Q. Then why didn't you make the summary judgment right at the beginning?

A. I have to complete discovery to know what evidence you might have with respect to conspiracy, fraud, collusion, criminal conduct, the whole thing. I can't move for summary judgment until we complete the entire discovery process so I get a sense of what evidence is out there, as to whether it's appropriate for me to undertake the expense to make the motion for summary judgment. And I might add, their notations before we filed the motion for summary judgment, I forget the exact reference, but I didn't

34

charge Ohio Farmers for about, what was it, an 1.4 hour meeting I had with an associate in my office, David Dedonna, I freebied 2.8 hours of my time so we could caucus and discuss how we're supposed to file the motion, what is appropriate to say, and let's go over the evidence and figure it out before we actually billed Ohio Farmers for doing the work. In my view it wouldn't be fair for me to charge Ohio Farmers so we could re-educated them on what was in the file. I charged them to prepare the motion.

There is such a mass of litigation here and we have to read every single piece of paper that you file. If you look at the pending motion for Moreland Homes that's out there, thankfully it's only two and a paragraph.

At the bottom of the second page he starts taking shots at Ohio Farmers. The last concluding paragraph he's still taking shots at Ohio Farmers. I had to read every single piece of paper that came across my desk. I didn't know what he was going to say, even if it's denominated only to Moreland Homes, it's always like a bowl of spaghetti, it's always combined, you have to make sure you're not missing something as the paper that comes across the desk. There were days I was getting stacks of paper six

35

inches high and it took half a day to read this stuff. It got to the point I wasn't billing time because it got to be too much.

Q. All right. Now, going back to the conspiracy. Okay, what you're trying to say is we are advising your client that a crime was being committed, that the grading is not properly done, their bond is being used, and what you're trying to say is if they don't investigate they just turn their head and say okay I'm going to ignore this, that isn't a conspiracy to allow them --

THE COURT: I'm going to exclude these questions. I'll remind you, again, we're here for, the limited purpose for this hearing is to determine whether or not attorney fees should be granted Mr. Lind and his law firm based upon alleged frivolous conduct.

Q. All right. We have a letter from Westfield Companies, part of Exhibit B, it says: Dear Mr. and Mrs. Siemientkowski; this will acknowledge the receipt of the fax dated May 25, 2000 wherein claim is asserted under the above referenced bond for allegedly improper grade around your house.

In other words, they were recognizing our

36

claim?

A. They have to acknowledge when they receive a claim. It's standard operating procedure at a surety, every time a claim is submitted it triggers events within a company. The first thing you do is acknowledge receipt of the claim so you establish the start date of the file. It would be improper for them not to acknowledge receiving your claim; not that they agree you have a valid claim, but that they received a claim. It happens on every file.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: I have no further questions at this time.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. LIND: I have nothing.

THE COURT: Thank you, Mr. Lind. Anything further on your behalf?

MR. LIND: Nothing on behalf of the defendant, your Honor.

THE COURT: Mr. Siemientkowski.

MR. LIND: You have an exhibit still on the bench.

THE COURT: Mr. Siemientkowski, what would you like to present with respect only to this motion for attorney fees.

37

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Only on the motion for attorneys fees. Could I call Mr. Hoy's testimony that the grading was improper as proof?

THE COURT: No.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Can I call Mr. Stuart Levies to ask what gave who gave him permission to improperly approve the grade?

THE COURT: Are you with the City of North Ridgeville?

MS. DELBALSO: Your Honor, I might add that aside from not serving our client we just came up today just to at the suggestion of the Court. I don't believe that Mr. Levies has been properly served. He has not been paid any witness fees.

THE COURT: He's excused from this case. Thank you, sir, for being here.

Mr. Siemientkowski, anything further?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: All I could say is the City of North Ridgeville and Moreland Homes have been in a constant relationship by which codes are constantly being violated and Moreland Homes is constantly being protected by the City of North Ridgeville. We even had

38

another incident which I had filed recently.

THE COURT: Time out. We're not even going to get into another subsequent incident or a subsequent case. We're limited here to the attorney fees hearing and evidence on that.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: I guess that the only other thing is I guess we don't understand, also as we don't understand why they even have to have a bond for the Presidentials because the Presidentials was a pre-platted subdivision and they grandfathered everything back to 1928 and nothing applies to the current years as it is. That's why there is a constant violation of the BOCA codes because they don't seem to recognize any criminal law.

THE COURT: Look, Mr. Siemientkowski, once again you're going outside the boundaries of this hearing.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: Well, okay, I'll make one last statement here. I do believe, again at the very beginning we were to have a meeting, a mediation, and had that mediation not been cancelled --

39

THE COURT: That was under Judge Friedland.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: That was under Judge Friedland. I am sure that a lot of these issues would have been resolved a long time ago and the expenses should not have been incurred.

Also, we still feel that we proceeded with good cause, sued Ohio Farmers because we still feel, regardless of the statements of Mr. Lind, that under Title 39 they had an obligation to do a thorough investigation. And we still believe fully that they should have come out and investigated the property and advised the City of North Ridgeville to either force the builder to fix the grade or do it themselves and put a claim against the bond. They did not do that.

THE COURT: Okay. Why was this withdrawn from mediation or arbitration?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: We asked to add Gilgenbach and at that request the judge decided that she was going to cancel mediation, which I felt was improper. She could have said don't add R.J. Gilgenbach and

40

proceed with mediation.

THE COURT: You asked her to add another defendant and she granted that motion?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: She did not. She didn't, your Honor.

THE COURT: Okay.

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: She didn't grant the motion. We asked for the mediation to be reinstated. And, no, it was not.

THE COURT: We have a trial date of June 1st; is that correct, everyone?

MR. SIEMIENTKOWSKI: That's correct, your Honor.

THE COURT: All right. I'll consider this motion heard and submitted. Thank you all.

Is Moreland Homes represented here today?

MR. BLEVINS: Yes, your Honor, Paul Blevins.

THE COURT: Mr. and Mrs. Siemientkowski and Mr. Lind and counsel for the bank and Moreland Homes, please come back.

CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE

Ronald J. Siemientkowski and Sara L. Siemientkowski, Appellants do hereby certify that the foregoing brief complies with the page limitation of 40 pages as set forth in Loc. App.R. 16(A). The total number of pages in the foregoing brief is 18.

Dated April 4<th>, 2006

/s/ [Signature]

Ronald J. Siemientkowski

P. O. Box 33085

North Royalton, OH 44133

216-807-0131

Pro Se

/s/ [Signature]

Sara L. Siemientkowski

P. O. Box 33085

North Royalton, OH 44133

216-807-0131

Pro Se

SERVICE OF COPY

The undersigned hereby certifies that a true copy of the foregoing Brief of Appellants, Ronald J. Siemientkowski and Sara L Siemientkowski was duly served by ordinary U.S. mail first-class postage prepaid, this 4<th> day of April 2006, upon Counsel for State Auto Insurance Company.

/s/ [Signature]

Ronald J. Siemientkowski, Pro Se

P. O. Box 33085

North Royalton, OH 44133

216 807 0131

/s/ [Signature]

Sara L. Siemientkowski, Pro Se

P. O. Box 33085

North Royalton, OH 44133

216 807 0131

[SEE EXHIBIT 2 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 3 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 4 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 5 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 7 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 8 IN ORIGINAL]

Table1 (Return to related document text)

Assignments of Error

1

Appellate Jurisdiction

2

Statement of Issues

2

Statement of the Case

3

Statement of Facts

5

Argument

9

Conclusion

16

Certificate of Compliance

18

Certificate of Service

18

Table1 (Return to related document text)
