3. STATEMENT OF ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

I.  TRIAL COURT ERRED BY DENYING APPELLANT DEFAULT JUDGMENT, BY ABUSE OF DISCRETION BY RELYING ON CLEARLY ERRONEOUS FINGINGS OF FACT.

II.  THE TRIAL COURT ERRED GRANTING APPELLE'S MOTION TO DISMISS OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT'S [ISSUE OR CLAIM PRECLUSION] THAT COVER'S UP PAST JUDICIAL- LITIGANT COLLUSION, IN CASE: CV 04 547780 WHICH IS FORBIDDEN BY LAW.

4.  STATEMENT OF ISSUES

The Estate of Jacqueline L. Barksdale Williams PROBATE COURT OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO Case NO: 2006 EST 0112945, via Christopher S, Barksdale Executor/Trustee Hereinafter, [appellant], brought a foreclosure action against, the State of Ohio inferred under O.R.C. § 5303.01 & Deutsche Bank, hereinafter, [appellee], filed for the record 11/30/07, for violations of Ohio Revised Code[s] 5301.01, 1335.05, and 2913.02 (A),(1),(2),(3).

On January 10th 2008 the appellee filed Defendant's Motion to Dismiss or, in the alternative, Motion for Summary Judgment, as a second answer to appellant's Complaint based on issue or claim preclusion (Res Judicata), predicated on perceived constructive notice Id. to Christopher S. Barksdale and [decendent] Jacqueline L Barksdale Williams of its Foreclosure action. In furtherance, appellee attempts to assert Christopher S. Barksdale's "failure to assert the claims [h]e now attempts to bring in the foreclosure action bars [h]im from litigating these claims now and [h]is Complaint must be dismissed." (page 6) Further, the appellee asserts " plaintiff's claims in the instant action are barred by the doctrine of res judicata. Moreover, to the extent that any such claims are not barred, they should be brought in the foreclosure action." (page 7)

5. STATEMENT OF THE CASE

In the INTRODUCTION, section of appellee's Motion to Dismiss or, in the alternative, Motion for Summary Judgment, sets forth a personal attack on the executor of the estate Christopher S. Barksdale due to his past individual action, which enjoined appellee's litigation against the decedent/debtors real property, however, the...foreclosure sale of the decedent's residence… the confirmation of the sale, the order of distribution of the sale proceeds, and the payment of the proceeds to defendant, and transfer of possession 11/30/07 clearly does not constitute, a equitable subordination claim, that would cause issue or claim preclusion, or constructive notice, to the estate, and privities, further, because Christopher S. Barksdale entrance upon the execution of a trust 11/30/07 by Letters or Authority, as Trustee, he in the shoes of a hypothetical bona fide purchaser represents the totality of the legal rights, interests, entitlements and obligations attaching to property, in the context of wills and probate, on 11/30/07 Accordingly; Appellee's conversion of realty action 11/30/07 charged the estate's property, upon a special promise, or Mortgage to answer for debt, and subsequent default, for miscarriage of its strawman, in doing so said action charged the executor or administrator upon the special promise to answer damages out of his own estate, as beneficiary Moreover; The appellee's conversion action results, from a Contract or Mortgage, that is defective, and caused an actual transfer of real property unlawfully, in contravention of the trustee's legal rights, interests, entitlements, and obligations attaching to realty, subsequently, appellant & the estate, has a Quiet Title & Contract Fraud claims that were dismissed. Moreover; There, is an appearance that the Trial Court & Appellee have been in collusion to obtain an objective of foreclosure forbidden by law, in this case, as cover up. The Court of Common Pleas promulgated, procedural rulings, that preempt appellant's meritorious claims, which are consistently ubiquitous, with appellee's [O]bvious omissions of [M]erit defenses, notwithstanding, appellant's correct application of law, evidence of collusive practice, to cover up appellee's miscarriage, via James Farley, and the courts total failure of the foreclosure process, in requiring substantial compliance of O.R.C. § 5301.01, before Default Judgment, is in state case: CV 04 547780.

In furtherance;

The appellee's Motion to Dismiss or, in the alternative, Motion for Summary Judgment, was filed beyond the time afforded, therefore the appellee is in default, because a Demurrer first answer [appellee's memorandum in opposition to appellant's motion for stay of eviction] stating appellee "wanted proof of service of process", was used as an answer to appellants, Complaint, is prohibited by O.R.C.P. Rule 7 (C) Further; The appellee has offered no grounds for a finding of excusable neglect, which would permit consideration of an untimely Motion to Dismiss as answer of appellant's complaint, and this court has expressed, the reasoning for the dismissal, of fiduciary/heir Christopher S. Barksdale's past Appeal, where the "findings and conclusions stated in the opinion override the effect of "res judicata" and support the conclusion of the appellant, to the trial court, that the decision was made on grounds other than on the merits, therefore genuine issues of material fact, exist, which are unambiguous, and should have been litigated at trial.

6.  STANDARD OF REVIEW

[Citing Ochsenbine v. Cadiz, 166 Ohio App.3d 719, 2005-Ohio-6781.]

An action to quiet title is a statutory cause of action under R.C. 5303.01. Holstein v. Crescent Communities, Inc., 10th Dist. No. 02AP-1241, 2003-Ohio-4760, at P26. That statute provides: "An action may be brought by a person in possession of real property, by himself or tenant, against any person who claims an interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse interest. Such action may be brought also by a person out of possession, having, or claiming to have, an interest in remainder or reversion in real property, against any person who claims to have an interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of determining the interests of the parties therein." The purpose of any quiet-title action is to conclusively determine the allocation of property interests. Lincoln Health Care, Inc. v. Keck, 11th Dist. No. 2002-L-006, 2003-Ohio-4864, at P23.[citations added].

"The burden of proof in a quiet title action rests with the complainant as to all issues which arise upon essential allegations of his complaint. He must prove title in himself if the answer denies his title or if the defendant claims title adversely." Duramax, Inc. v. Geauga Cty. Bd. of Commrs. (1995), 106 Ohio App.3d 795, 798. The Appellant 's brought the present action to quiet title, they first establish ownership through adverse possession. Didday v. Bradburn (Feb. 22, 2000), 12th Dist. Nos. CA99-05-049, CA99-06-059, at 2. Decendent Jacqueline L. Barksdale Williams owned the land in question fee simple until appellee converted it 05/23/01. In Ohio, "a fee simple is the highest right, title and interest that one can have in land. It is the full and absolute estate in all that can be granted." Masheter v. Diver (1969), 20 Ohio St.2d 74, 78., the decendent willed said land to Christopher S. Barksdale, who is beneficiary, fiduciary, executor, of the estate.

7.  STATEMENT OF FACTS

I.  TRIAL COURT ERRED BY DENYING APPELLANT DEFAULT JUDGMENT, BY ABUSE OF DISCRETION BY RELYING ON CLEARLY ERRONEOUS FINGINGS OF FACT.

The appellee has failed to answer the summons attached to appellant's Complaint, within 28 Days, from Date of Service 12/10/07 to 01/09/08… by 4:30PM (2 Day Legal Holiday's added to original deadline of 12/07/08 )...As provided by Rule 55 (A) the appellant, was entitled to a judgment by default, as the trial court relies on clearly erroneous findings of fact, the appellee's representative failed to file an appearance of counsel in the trial court, or failed to appear therein; And, appellant's suit was served to defendant @ its place of Business 60 Wall Street New York New York 10005 December 10th 2007. See Docket Therefore, the appelle is in default. Moreover, the appellee's prior representative in a related case, [CV-04-547780] was served appellant's complaint December 13th 2007 two (2) Days after its client received constructive notice, of appellant's suit & it failed to answer the complaint. The appellee has offered no grounds for a finding of excusable neglect, which would permit consideration of the untimely Motion to Dismiss as answer of appellant's complaint. A trial judge's discretionary decision not to permit a filing out of rule is reviewed for abuse of the exercise of that discretion. In re Pioneer Inv. Services, Inc ., 943 F.2d 673, 676 (6th Cir. 1991),aff'd , 507 U.S. 380 (1993). Generally, an abuse of discretion occurs "when the reviewing court is firmly convinced that a mistake has been made. A district court abuses its discretion when it relies on clearly erroneous findings of fact, or when it improperly applies the law or uses [an] erroneous legal standard." Romstadt v. Allstate Ins. Co. , 59 F.3d 608, 615 (6th Cir. 1995) (quotations and citations omitted).

The appellee submitted to the trial court a garden variety claim of excusable neglect that service of summons "was sent to the wrong address", when in fact Summons was sent to the correct address. The United States Supreme Court "prohibited" the appellee's garden variety claim of excusable neglect under O.R.C.P. [R] 6 (B)(2) "Principles of equitable tolling do not extend to garden variety claims of excusable neglect". Irwin v. Dep't of Veterans Affairs, 498 U.S. 89, 96 (1990), and it is well settled that upon service of process, there is Constructive Notice pursuant to O.R.C. § 2703.26.

In Furtherance; appellee's answer instanter was filed outside the rules, as it failed to file a motion for enlargement of time showing excusable neglect as required by Civ. R. 6 (B)(2) supported by a written Affidavit & appearance of counsel Mack Constr. Dev. Corp. v. Austin Smith Constr. Co. (Butler 1989) 65 Ohio App.3d 402, 583 N.E. 2d 1384. Moreover, equity and fairness require this court to weigh the appellee's actions in this county, with respect to "default judgment", because it receives judgments of default daily, in its foreclosure actions, which are being questioned locally as well as nationally, the trial court should have applied equity & fairness to the appellant, as the appellee is on the receiving end, of default, or impropriety, and prejudice results, as the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, have allowed approximately 11.000 default judgment's to benefit the appellee in 2007 but chooses to deny appellant's claim, therefore an appearance of collusion exists, that conclusion arises with the trial courts principles of equitable tolling extended to appellee's garden variety claim of excusable neglect, that appellant sent, his complaint to the wrong address, which is an erroneous findings of fact, therefore, the journal entry, attached to appellants Notice of Appeal, is reversible.

II.  THE TRIAL COURT ERRED GRANTING APPELLE'S MOTION TO DISMISS OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT'S [ISSUE OR CLAIM PRECLUSION] THAT COVER'S UP PAST JUDICIAL- LITIGANT COLLUSION, IN CASE: CV 04 547780 WHICH IS FORBIDDEN BY LAW.

The general rule in Ohio is that "a dismissal by court order is a dismissal on the merits." Manohar v. Massillon Community Hospital (1997) 122 Ohio App.3d 715, 719. However, when the court expresses the reasoning for the dismissal, then "the findings and conclusions as stated in the * * * opinion override the effect of the phrase 'dismissed with prejudice * * * ubiquitous, as res judicata * * * and support the conclusion that the decision was made on grounds other than on the merits." Metmor Fin. v. Slimmer (May 17, 1996), 11th Dist. No. 95-T-5341, at 10-11.

This court expressly dismissed Appeal Case Number: 88252 for "Lack of Standing" and "Present Interest in the Subject Matter of the Litigation" which operates "as Christopher Barksdale's failure otherwise than on the merits [procedural dismissal]; The merits of the fiduciary's past appeal, were pursuant to R.C. 5301.01...see Opinion posted on the internet 04/19/07… www.sconet.state.oh.us/rod/newpdf/8/2007/2007-ohio-1838.pdf The case at Barr is a Quiet Title Action under ORC § 5303.01 due to appellee's theft by conversion of realty on 11/30/07. [@ Page 3 of Complaint].

Moreover, fraud prohibits appellee's past foreclosure actionNo action shall be brought whereby to charge the defendant, upon a special promise, to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another person; nor to charge an executor or administrator upon a special promise to answer damages out of his own estate, O.R.C. §1335.05. Accordingly, the statue of frauds prohibits fiduciary res judicata preemption, thus the fiduciaries, adverse possession claim, and Contract fraud claims are allowed because a subornation claim, is obtained by fraud, and miscarriage of appellee, by reformation of a defective mortgage, predicated on a perceived contractual special promise, which is not a operative fact which manifested, appellee's interest, or possession of a beneficiary's indefeasibly vested remainder, or the decedents.' therefore, un-enforsable, against the estate, or trustee. The Seventh Circuit ruled in Boberschmidt v. Society National Bank [N.K.S. Key] (In re Jones)..."that the foreclosure sale of the debtors' residence, the confirmation of the sale, the order of distribution of the sale proceeds, and the payment of the proceeds to Key (all within the statutory preference period) clearly constitute a transfer of the Debtors interest in property.@69 The Seventh Circuit also stated that, the fact that the transfer was made pursuant to a state court judgment rather than voluntarily does not alter our analysis.@70 that Keys mortgage was concededly an unperfected interest and therefore unenforceable against the trustee as an unsecured creditor." Further; "a mortgage not executed in accordance with Ohio Rev. Code § 5301.01 is defective and is not deemed to be perfected or to constitute constructive notice to third parties.". See Basil v. Vincello, 50 Ohio St. 3d 185, 553 N.E.2d 602, 606 (1990). Furthermore; The Notary James Farley subscribing as witness to appellee's instruments May 23rd 2001 inserted on both documents "AND SIGNED BY HER MARK" it is well settled for 160 Years under Ohio law that, "in certifying the acknowledgment of a deed or other instrument, nothing further is necessary than that the officer taking the acknowledgment subscribes his name to the certificate, and this provision applies to notaries as well as other officers" Fund Commissioners of muskingum Co. v. Glass Et.Al .(Ohio 1848) 17 Ohio. 542, it is Appellant's contention the notery James Farley fraudulently inserted/affixed "AND SIGNED BY HER MARK" because the blind decedent debtor did not know legally where to insert the foregoing phrase, or [S]ee where too, therefore the X is not her signature versions of her signature appear on record, at the county recorders office; the trial court and appellee have a presumption, that the debtor/decendent indeed initialed, its instruments with an X, by confirmation of sheriff sale however, that conclusion is irrelevant See Monnie v. Field (In re Bross), 2006 US. Dist. LEXIS 57449 (S.D. Ohio Aug. 16, 2006), "The fact that the debtor had initialed the bottom of each page of the document was irrelevant and did not constitute substantial compliance under O.R.C. § 5301.01". A federal court found that because * a mortgage was initialed, the debtors intention to execute the mortgage in foreclosure, was not manifest.<96> * The Appellee cannot overcome Monnie in opposition to the instant matter, or non-signature defect under statue of frauds [O.R.C. § § 1335.02, (B),. 1335.05], which preempts privity of parties, notwithstanding, appellant's vested rights as hypothetical bona fide purchaser. In Furtherance; The appellee's mortgage was not signed, therefore, the debtors intention to execute a mortgage was not manifest, thus it became an unperfected security interest Id. after confirmation..."an unperfected security interest based on the fact that the mortgage was defective under Ohio Rev. Code Ann. 5301.01, allowed no preferential transfer, from foreclosure, nor does it contend that the foreclosure proceedings served to perfect interest." Boberschmidt v. Society National Bank [N.K.S. Key] (In re Jones) Therefore, in accordance to law appellant filed a lis pendens Quiet Title Deed Affidavit as evidence of the foregoing pursuant to O.R.C. § 5301.252 (A), (B), (1).

The Ohio lis pendens doctrine, pursuant to Ohio Rev. Code § 2703.26, supra, created constructive notice of the plaintiff's interest in property that is the subject of the action to bona fide purchasers from the time of service of the summons. See Cook v. Mozer, supra, 108 Ohio St. at 592, 140 N.E. at 592 ("there is no doubt whether lis pendens has the effect of constructive notice"); Pease Co. v. Huntington Nat'l Bank, 24 Ohio App.3d 227, 230 (10th App. Dist. 1985). (Ohio Rev. Code § 2703.26 controls as to when lis pendens applies to cut off another party's interest in the property).

Accordingly, constructive notice of appellants interest was given, after RC 5303.01 action was filed and service of process was satisfied, the suit should not have been dismissed, as genuine issues of material facts remained to be litigated, such as contract fraud, adverse possession, and Theft claims, denied in contravention of the operative fact of a unlawful actual transfer of realty 11/30/07 being the cause of action. Additionally; As of 11/30/07 the fiduciary is in the shoes of a hypothetical bona fide purchaser [decendent] the appellee's Foreclosure action, has no priority over appellant's civil action "only properly executed mortgages take priority over a hypothetical bona fide purchaser under Ohio law" Menninger v. First Franklin Financial Corp. (In re Fryman) 314 B.R. 137, 138 (Bankr. S.D. Ohio 2004).

 8. LAW AND ARGUMENT

Foreclosure proceedings in state courts are generally deemed "non-core" where the foreclosure action is based on the same facts as the debtor's equitable subordination claim, the appellee's subordination claim...is [N]ot equitable being Defective, [unacknowledged], therefore, if the appellant's quiet title action were terminated the fiduciaries estate action, would be deprived of a equitable subornation defense, available solely as a result of O.R.C. § 5303.01, which is the only state law available after adverse possession of realty, by the state [sheriff sale], that can trump state law foreclosure, therefore the trial courts abstention is in error, as the appellant's interest in the estates realty [O]n 11/30/07, was reverted, thus appellant/fiduciary filed a action to quiet title, as new cause of action against the appellee, for unlawful state reversion; claiming to have, an interest in remainder or reversion in real property, against any person who claims to have an interest therein, adverse to him, because the appellee's foreclosure action was brought whereby to charge the decendent, upon a special debt or promise O.R.C. §1335.05 she did not execute by signature O.R.C. § 5301.01 to answer for, miscarriage of James Farley, and to charge, the executor or administrator upon that special promise to answer damages out of his own estate, in furtherance, the appellee, is culpable under respondent superior doctrine, for the acts or edicts or its strawman James Farley on 05/23/01, in the Contract Fraud claim dismissed, as he purposely quit claimed the decendent's Title to secure a subordination claim, with depraved indifference to substantial compliance of RC 5301.01 therefore, allowing theft of realty 11/30/07 O.R.C. § 2913.02, as such appellee's strawman, purposely; Acts/acted to keep appellant out of possession of realty, thus deprive the estate of property, after 05/23/01 by knowingly obtaining court orders to exert control over the property; Without the signed consent of the owner authorized to give consent; By deception of the fee simple owner. [F]acts are present to the extent, that a Court conducted, a collusive public foreclosure sale of the decendent's property, therefore, the judgment and sale were confirmed by the same court as a collusive practice, being warned of instrumental defect, the crime is in the cover up, of how easy it was for the appellee, to foreclose without instrumental signatures, and the Court, to cooperate, with the appelle in order to do something illegal or underhanded, to decendent, by voluntarily proceeding to seek confirmation of a defective mortgage & sheriff sale. Nonetheless, the foregoing served to perfect no interest of the appellee, a Federal Court, has ruled such, the Seventh Circuit permitted a bankruptcy trustee to commence an action to re-litigate the validity of the mortgage and require the mortgagee, who received a portion of the sale proceeds, to disgorge the payment as the proceeds of a preferential transfer, in doing so it relied on Ohio law O.R.C. § 5301.01 for it's proposition of what constitutes, a State Foreclosure, with respect to perfected or unperfected security interest, constructive notice, hypothetical bona fide purchaser, and privity, the appellee cannot overcome the effect of such jurisprudence, as a mechanistic force that dictates decisions & conclusions, nor can the trial court, or this court, by use of any jurisprudential regime, to apply a retroactive procedural preemption, to offset appellant's litigation, by targeting the content or viewpoint of expressions of wrongs instead of the merits.

ACCORDINGLY , the forgoing averments, and the appellee's instruments, and appellant's quiet title deed affidavit are evidence demonstrating that the nonmoving party has evidence to prove its case, that the appellee claims title adversely, and committed Contract Fraud. Further, no law exists that preempts re-litigation of a foreclosure action due to fraud, adverse possession, or contract fraud, in fact, the door was opened by Federal Courts, therefore, the trial courts [D]ismissal of appellant's Motion for Default, and [G]ranting of appellee'' Motion to Dismiss or, in the Alternative, Motion for Summary Judgment must be [R]eversed.FORTHWITH.

Respectfully Submitted

/s/ [Signature]

ESTATE OF JACQUELINE L. BARKSDALE WILLIAMS

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

The forgoing BRIEF IN OPPOSITION TO TRIAL COURT JUDGMENT DENYING APPELLANT'S THEFT CLAIM, CONTRACT FRAUD CLAIM, AND CLAIM UNDER OHIO REVISED CODE § 5303.01 has been filed and served this 19th Day of February 2008 to Court of Appeals Eighth Appellate District Cuyahoga County, Ohio. And by Hand to:

DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMER ICAS FKA BANKERS TRUST

COMPANY AS TRUSTEE % MORTGAGE LENDERS NETWORK representative

C/o KIMBERLY A BRENNAN (0061625)

101 WEST PROSPECT AVE., SUITE 1800

CLEVELAND, OH 44115

From:

ESTATE OF JACQUELINE L. BARKSDALE WILLIAMS

/s/ [Signature]

Executor Trustee Christopher S. Barksdale

[SEE ATTACHMENT IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT A IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT B IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT C IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT D IN ORIGINAL]
