ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

I. THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING DEFENDANT-APPELLEE'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGEMENT

A. THE COURT IMPROPERLY APPLIED THE DOCTRINE OF RES JUDICATA WHERE IT WAS NOT APPLICABLE

B. COURT IMPROPERLY BASED ITS RULING ON A DRAFTED UNSIGNED SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT PURSUANT TO RULE 11

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES

1.  WHETHER OR NOT THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING OF THE DEFENDANT-APPELLEE'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

This case was filed on February 22, 2011 within the one year statutory requirement of filing an action. The claims involve breach of contract, frivolous conduct, and civil fraud on the part of the Appellees Integrity Realty Group, LLC.

On April 18, 2011 the Appellant filed an amended complaint against the Appellee. On April 18, 2011 the Appellees filed a motion for summary judgment. The trial court rendered the motion moot on April 29, 2011. On May 3, 2011 five days later Appellee re-filed the motion for summary judgment which had already been ruled as moot. The Appellee did not file an answer to the pleading either confirming or denying the claims and on May 3, 2011 the Appellant filed a motion for default judgment for Defendant's failure to file a response to the claims pursuant to Rule 12 of the Ohio Civil Rules of Procedure. The Court did not make a ruling on either motion.

Appellees filed a Renewed Motion for Summary Judgment with a supplement attached on August 8, 2011. Plaintiff filed an objection and another motion for default judgment for failure to respond to the complaint pursuant to OCR of procedure 12. The defendant was well beyond the twenty eight days required for filing a responsive pleading pursuant to the rules. Defendant's motion for summary judgment had been entered before discovery had been conducted by either party. On October 5, 2011 both parties attended a case management conference before the trial judge where dates for discovery, pretrial conference, and trial dates were established. On February 10, 2012 at the pretrial conference the trial Court entered a judgment granting the Appellee's motion for summary judgment giving rise to the timely filing for the Appeal to the Eighth District Court of Appeals on March 5, 2012.

STATEMENT OF FACTS

This is a breach of contract, civil fraud, and frivolous conduct case filed against the Defendant-Appellees, Integrity Realty Group, LLC. Appellant, Marian S. Crenshaw was a tenant in a building owned by Shaker North, LTD., a non-party, Shaker North, LTD., as stated on line one of the lease contract being the owner. Integrity Realty Group, LTD., being the property management, supplied all information and kept track of all business transactions between Shaker North, LTD., and the Appellant. On January 24, 2012, the sworn deposition testimony was taken of Dan Siegal. On pages 3 and 4, lines 9-12, Mr. Siegal states that he is the co-owner of Integrity Realty, LTD., and that it has multiple companies. Mr. Siegal further testified on page 37 line 25, that he has an accounting staff which supplies him with print out reports of the income and expense statements. He also states that his CFO and partner in Integrity Realty Group, LLC, Rich Brown, and a controller handle all verifications of transactions.

Integrity Realty Group, LLC, is registered in the state of Ohio which manages multiple buildings throughout. Appellee entered on record this information to the trial Court on February 10, 2012 and the trial Court rejected it. The lease between Appellant and Shaker North, LTD., was issued through and by Integrity Realty Group, LLC, the owner's property management company. The lease bears the name of Integrity Realty Group, LLC, in print which constitutes an adoptive signature. The lease would be deemed a sufficient memorandum for the purposes of a writing which satisfies the Statute of Frauds and therefore makes the property management group liable under the same contract as the owner of Shaker North, LTD. Throughout the tenancy of the Plaintiff-Appellant Integrity Realty, LLC, supplied notices, and other relevant information relating to the tenancy, and all information to the owner of Shaker North, LTD., and to the Plaintiff which bears the name of Integrity Realty Group, LLC, only. All exhibits collected through the Discovery process involving communications to the Appellant clearly bear the name of Integrity Realty Group, LLC.

On March 18, 2010 a Forcible Entry and Detainer was filed in the Cleveland Municipal Housing Court Case No: 2010-CVG-005113 against the Appellant by the owner Shaker North, LTD. Shaker North, LTD. Evidence produced in the proceedings in the Housing Court showed that Shaker North, LTD., relied on information provided by the property management company, Appellee, Integrity Realty Group, LLC. Shaker North, LTD., alleged in its complaint that rent and property damages were due from Appellant based upon information that the Appellee herein had falsely supplied. The eviction action occurred after the Appellant had filed complaints with the owner, Shaker North, LTD., and the Ohio Civil Rights Commission regarding discriminatory practices of the property manager, Appellee Integrity Realty Group, LLC. The eviction case was filed only by Shaker North, LTD., and Appellee herein was never a party in the Municipal Court action.

Appellant herein filed an answer and counterclaim against Shaker North, LTD., for breach of contract and discrimination on March 26, 2010 in the municipal court proceedings. Integrity Realty Group, LLC, Appellee herein was not a party to the counter complaint. On January 10, 2011 a housing Court Settlement conference was held between the parties in the Municipal Court proceeding. Shaker North, LTD., and Mariah Crenshaw the only parties in that proceeding, settled the matter. Shaker North, LTD., agreed in the Municipal Court to dismiss with prejudice its respective claims against the Appellant and return the security deposit. Both Shaker North, LTD., and Mariah Crenshaw the only parties in that proceeding signed a settlement agreement and dismissed their claims with prejudice. On January 19, 2011 the entry was journalized in the Cleveland Municipal Housing Court.

Thereafter, Appellant filed her suit for breach of contract, civil fraud, and frivolous conduct against the property management company Integrity Realty Group, LLC, in this matter in the Court of Common Pleas, on February 22, 2011. On July 2, 2011 an employee of Integrity Realty Group, LLC, filed a defamation of character against the Appellant in the Court of Common Pleas as Case No: CV-11-730960. Appellant filed a counter claim against said employee on July 20, 2011 alleging damages for discrimination. The trial court in that action dismissed the counter claim on a motion for summary judgment based on untimely filing and filing without leave.

On June 2, 2011 all parties signed a judgment entry of dismissal with prejudice which was journalized showing the case had been settled and dismissed with prejudice. Appellee Integrity Realty Group, LLC, was not a party to these proceedings. This journal entry is found in the record as a Stipulation for Dismissal and Judgment Entry attached to Appellant's Renewed Objection and Requests to Deny Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment filed on August 8, 2011. The journal entry reflects the matter is dismissed with prejudice between the employee a non-party to the case currently before this court, and the Appellant. However the terms of the settlement agreement were never memorialized in a writing signed by the parties. Eventually a document was prepared by plaintiffs counsel in Case No. CV11-730960, and transmitted to Appellant which she could not sign because it included issues not covered by the settlement agreement.

On June 6, 2011 the Counsel for Plaintiff, in that case, filed a motion to enforce the alleged settlement agreement based upon the written document claimed by counsel, but not the actual terms agreed upon by the parties. Accordingly on June 13, 2011, Appellant filed an objection. Counsel presented the unsigned drafted settlement agreement to the trial court. The document presented to the trial court included a global release of all claims against Shaker North, LTD., the property manager, and her employer Integrity Realty Group, LLC. (Counsel for Integrity Realty Group, LLC represents the plaintiff in Case No: CV-11-730960 and Case No: 749067). This settlement agreement which would have settled Appellant's claims against Appellee Integrity Realty Group, LLC, in the then pending Case No: CV-11-749067, which was never intended by Appellant.

On July 27, 2011 the trial court held an enforcement hearing. The trial court entered an entry enforcing the unsigned settlement agreement. While Appellant herein was never served with a copy of enforcement order, she learned of it when the order was filed with Appellees Supplement to renewed Motion for Summary Judgment filed August 12, 2011 filed in Case No: CV-11-749067.

The trial court judge in the instant matter relied in part upon the drafted unsigned settlement agreement to grant the summary judgment filed by the Appellee. (See trial Courts opinion) As a consequence the Appellant has suffered further damage by the Defendant-Appellee. The Plaintiff-Appellant incurred damages in excess of $ 46,000 and will continue to incur expenses and damages by further litigating this matter.

LAW AND ARGUMENT

1.  WHETHER OR NOT THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING OF DEFENDANT-APPELLEE'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

A.  THE COURT SHOULD DENY DEFENDANTS MOTION BECAUSE THERE ARE MATERIAL FACTS IN DISPUTE AND DEFENDANT IS NOT ENTITLED TO JUDGMENT AS A MATTER OF LAW

The Defendants' Motion for Summary Judgment should be denied.

The function of summary judgment is to dispose of cases with trial when one party is unable to demonstrate the existence of a factual dispute which, if present would require resolution by a jury or other trier of fact. Shultz v. Newsweek, Inc., 668 F.2d 911, 918 (6th Cir., 1982)

The Court must decide whether there are "no genuine issues as to any material fact and [whether] the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law." Willette v. Ford Motor Co.. 583 F.2d. 852, 855 (6th Cir., 1978); Fed. R. Civ. P. 56 (C). The moving party:

Has the burden of showing conclusively that there exists no genuine issue as to a material fact and the evidence together with all inferences to be drawn there must be read in the light most favorable to the party opposing the motion. (Emphasis added) Smith v. Hudson. 600 F.2d. 60, 63 (6th Cir., 1979). See also Adickes v. Kress & Co.. 398 U.. 144.157-158 (1970).

Further, in ruling for summary judgment, it is fundamental that:

The inferences be drawn from the underlying facts contained in the affidavits and other exhibits must be viewed in the light most favorable to the party opposing the motion. Hounshell v.American States. Inc. Co. 67 Ohio St.2d 427,433 (1981)

Furthermore summary judgment is:

A procedure which should be cautiously and with the utmost care so that a litigant's right to a trial, wherein the evidentiary portion of the litigant's case is presented and developed, is not usurped in the presence of conflicting facts and inferences. Viock v. Stowe-Woodward Co.. 13 Ohio App. 3d 7 (1983).

As the following discussion demonstrates, there are numerous issues of fact and law in dispute, and the Defendants were not entitled to judgment as a matter of law. The Motion for Summary Judgment should therefore be denied.

The Defense persuaded the Trial Court to dismiss this case with the doctrine of Res Judicata. The Defense argued that the parties Shaker North, LTD and Integrity Realty Group, LLC, are the same entity and therefore could not be sued over the same issues. It was counsel for Appellees which introduced to the trial Court the notion that the Appellees and the non-party Shaker North, LLC, were one and the same company. This information was introduced to the trial Court by adding the non-party Shaker North, LTD., to each motion and response as a dba to the Appellees Integrity Realty, LLC. At no time did counsel introduce evidence to support that the companies were operating as the same entity. When the non-party Shaker North, LTD., filed the forcible entry in the Cleveland Municipal Housing Court against the Appellant, the Appellees were at no time introduced as a party or company related to or controlled by the owner Shaker North, LTD. During the Discovery process the Appellees provided no evidence to support that the companies are in fact one in the same.

The doctrine of Res Judicata requires that:

The general rule is that a plaintiff who has prosecuted one action against a defendant and obtained a valid final judgment is barred by res judicata from prosecuting another action against the same defendant where:

(a) the claim in the second action is one which is based on the same factual transaction that was at issue in the first;

(b) the plaintiff seeks a remedy additional or alternative to the one sought earlier; and

(c) the claim is of such a nature as could have been joined in the first action. Underlying this standard is the need to strike a delicate balance between the interests of the defendant and of the courts in bringing litigation to a close and the interest of the plaintiff in the vindication of a just claim.

Res Judicata does not bar the Plaintiff from suing a different party which the Appellees are. Both entities are listed as independent companies with the Secretary of State of Ohio and both companies provided different services to the Plaintiff-Appellant in this matter under the same contract. The litigation brought forth in the housing court was an independent action from the owner of the building, Shaker North, LTD. Integrity Realty Group, LLC, is the property managing company which is the Defendant-Appellee in this case. The Plaintiff-Appellant brought claims against the property management company who were assigned and delegated duties by Shaker North, LTD. Under contract law a claimant may be eligible to enforce a contract by right of virtue of a transfer (an assignment) to the claimant of that right, made by one who was a party to the contract. When a contracting party delegates to a third party, and that party assumes, a duty that the contract imposes on the one making the delegation then the third party becomes responsible under the same contract.

The Defendant's claims of res judicata are not applicable because the test is generally applied to consider the identity of facts essential to their maintenance, or whether the same evidence would sustain both. If the same facts or evidence would sustain both, the two actions are considered the same within the rule that the judgment in the former is a bar to subsequent action. If however, the two actions rest upon different states of facts, or different proofs which would be required to sustain the two actions, a judgment in one is no bar to the maintenance of the other.' 30 American Jurisprudence, 918, Section 174. See also 2 Freeman on Judgments (5 Ed), 1447, Section 687; Bell v. Merrifield, 109 N.Y. 202.16 N.E. 55, 4 Am.St.Rep. 436; Curtis v Crooks, Trustee, 190 Wash. 43,66 P.2d 1140." Id. 71 per Miami Valley Hosp. v. Purvis, 2007-Ohio-4721.(1997)

The contract which was the core of the litigation in the Cleveland Municipal Housing Court is the same contract in this case. The litigants are not the same party but are joint tortfeasors with the same legal rights, responsibilities, and duties owed to the Appellant and are therefore not barred by the principle of Res Judicata. The two actions involve different transactions or occurrences, and involve different parties. The claims in the two actions therefore do not share the same nucleus of operative facts.

The first action against non-party Shaker North, LTD. was a breach of contract and religious discrimination claim in the Cleveland Municipal Housing Court. The present action against the Appellees is for breach of contract, frivolous conduct, and civil fraud. Though the contract is the same the actions of each party is clearly different issues for the trial Court to consider. Shaker North, LTD., and Appellee Integrity Realty Group, LLC, are different companies with different duties owed to the Appellant and the residential lease which bears the name of the leasing company clearly separates the parties roles in the contract.

The trial Court stated:

"A claim that a complaint is frivolous would exist while said complaint was pending. Also it is clear that when a party claims that a complaint itself is frivolous, the case in which the alleged frivolous complaint is pending would be logically related to that claim. Defending against a complaint then filing a subsequent separate action claiming the complaint is frivolous would result in a duplication of claims with a common basis of law and fact."

The Claims before the trial Court regarding frivolous conduct, and fraud were brought against an independent company which had been assigned the duties of property management. The Court did not separate the two companies but viewed them as one company. Defense convinced the trial court that the issues were barred based on the notion that they could have been raised and litigated with the property owner, Shaker North, LTD., and not in an independent action against the property management company, Integrity Realty Group, LLC, because they are the same company and they clearly are not. During the Discovery process there was no evidence introduced by Appellees to support that the companies are operating as one business. The claim for frivolous conduct was implemented and included in this pending litigation against the property management company and was a pending claim in conjunction with two other claims, and cannot be barred by the res judicata doctrine. The Court states:

"Plaintiff did not attempt to amend her counterclaim to add the claim of fraud."

The Plaintiff was not required by law to amend the claim in the Housing Court because it was not the Plaintiff, Shaker North, LTD., (a non-party to this action) in the Cleveland Municipal Housing Court Case No: 2010-CVG-005113, who was directly responsible for the fraud and frivolous conduct which caused the breach of contract between the building owner and the Appellant. Neither were Appellees in this matter a party to the case filed in the Cleveland Municipal Housing Court. The independent property management company presented ledgers and false information to Shaker North, LTD., who relied on the information to enter a Forcible Entry and Detainer against the Appellant and is liable for actual and proximate causes of the Plaintiff's damages.

B.  COURT ERRED IN ALLOWING AN UNSIGNED DRAFTED SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT TO BE ENTERD INTO THE RECORD AND RELIED UPON FOR GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT TO THE DEFENDANT-APPELLEE

The Defense presented an unsigned, drafted settlement agreement to the trial court. Defense also submitted an unsigned Joint Stipulation of Dismissal with Prejudice to the trial Court which the trial court in Case No: CV-11-749067 based on a case from another court Case No: Cv-11-730960 which involved different issues and different parties. The documents were introduced at an enforcement hearing on June 27, 2011. The trial Court enforced the unsigned document which included global releases of Shaker North, LTD., (a non-party) the employee, (a non-party) and the employer Appellee's-Integrity Realty Group, LLC, which contained claims in another court in which the trial Court did not have jurisdiction to consider. The Court erred in considering the document.

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR

Case No: CV-11-730960 was an independent action involving a non-party to Case No: CV-11-749067. The employee of the Appellee filed a case for defamation of character. The issues before this trial court in Case No: CV-11-749067 against Appellees contains breach of contract, frivolous conduct, and fraud. Neither of the complaints overlaps in either issue or parties and at no time did either party file a motion to enjoin the cases. The trial court relied upon an enforcement which is not compliant with the Ohio Civil Rules of Procedure.

RULE 11. Signing of Pleadings, Motions, or Other Documents

Every pleading, motion, or other document of a party represented by an attorney shall be signed by at least one attorney of record in the attorney's individual name, whose address, attorney registration number, telephone number, telefax number, if any, and business e-mail address, if any, shall be stated. A party who is not represented by an attorney shall sign the pleading, motion, or other document and state the party's address. Except when otherwise specifically provided by these rules, pleadings need not be verified or accompanied by affidavit. The signature of an attorney or pro se party constitutes a certificate by the attorney or party that the attorney or party has read the document; that to the best of the attorney's or party's knowledge, information, and belief there is good ground to support it; and that it Is not interposed for delay. If a document is not signed or is signed with intent to defeat the purpose of this rule, it may be stricken as sham and false and the action may proceed as though the document had not been served. For a willful violation of this rule, an attorney or pro se party, upon motion of a party or upon the court's own motion, may be subjected to appropriate action, including an award to the opposing party of expenses and reasonable attorney fees incurred in bringing any motion under this rule. Similar action may be taken if scandalous or indecent matter is inserted.

The drafted copy of a Mutual Settlement agreement was submitted to both of the trial courts and did not contain signatures of either party neither of that of Defendant's attorney of record. Both of the trial courts should have stricken the documents based on the lack of signatures which would clearly reflect that there had not been a meeting of the minds on any settlement as required by contract law. The Court erred by allowing the documents to become part of the docket based on rule 11 of the Ohio Civil Rules of Procedure.

In The 820 Co.. LLC vs A & M Financial Group. Inc.. 2003-Ohio-1723.(2003), states that:

A motion to enforce a settlement made pursuant to Ohio Civil Rule 15(E), may only be filed prior to the entry of a final judgment. Thus a motion to enforce a settlement is inappropriate after an entry adjudicating all the claims in dispute has been journalized.

On June 6, 2011 both parties signed a dismissal of claims and settlement which was journalized on the same day. It was improper for the trial court to hold an enforcement hearing after the case had been dismissed with prejudice and the alleged settlement agreement had not been entered and journalized. The trial courts enforcement of the unsigned drafted agreement on June 27, 2011 is rendered moot because of the lack of signatures and the journalization of the dismissal between the parties.

Furthermore in Smigelski v. Ben Venue Laboratories. Inc., 2008-Ohio-6498. (2008). the Court of Appeals of Ohio determined that:

The Ohio Supreme Court has held that it is preferable that a settlement be memorialized in writing. However, an oral agreement may be enforceable if there is sufficient particularity to form a binding contract. Terms of an oral contract may be determined from 'words, deeds, acts, and silence of the parties." Kotelnik v. Helper. 96 Ohio St.3d 1.3.2002-Ohio-2985. The unsigned settlement agreements show at best that negotiations between the parties took place. See Schalmo Builders. Inc. v. Zama, Cuyahoga ADD. No 9782, 2008-Ohio 5879. Holding that the record does not support a finding that was a meeting of the minds between Schalmo and Zama regarding settlement, where there was an unsigned settlement draft and the defendant testified that she never agreed to settle the case.

In the enforcement hearing held on June 27, 2011, regarding the alleged settlement of the case and the terms of the document, Appellant testified nine times that she did not agree to the terms of the drafted document and refused to sign. (The Appellant's testimony is attached to the Request to Deny Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment filed August 22, 2011.) There is no evidence to support that the terms of the drafted document that there was a meeting of the minds to dismiss claims against the employer Appellee-Integrity Realty Group, LLC. The terms of an oral contract would require that an agreement had been made between parties when 'words, deeds, acts, and silence of the parties exist.' In this matter, Appellant did not speak or act upon the alleged agreement and continued with the litigation process for six months after the alleged agreement. Reasonable minds would infer that there was no agreement to release Appellees-Integrity Realty Group, LLC, from the claims before the trial court which rendered the enforcement. The enforcement in the defamation Case No: CV-11-739067 was granted to a non-party of Case No: CV-11-749067 which had no bearing on the claims of breach of contract, fraud, and frivolous conduct before the trial court. The Court erred by allowing the document to be considered as reliance for summary judgment and should have stricken the document as moot, as a sham, and false according to the rules of procedure and as a matter of law and according to Ohio Civil Rule of procedure Rule 11. The action should have moved forward and the document treated as though it had never been served. By allowing the unsigned drafted document to be entered into the record and used in consideration to grant summary judgment to the Appellees, Appellant has been caused further damages.

CONCLUSION

For the reasons stated herein, The Trial Court erred in granting the Defendant-Appellees' motion for summary judgment. Its ruling should be reversed and this case should be remanded to the Trial Court for further proceedings.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Mariah Crenshaw

Mariah Crenshaw, Pro se

3472 E 114th Street

Cleveland, Ohio 44104

216-240-5669

mariahcren@consultant.com

A COPY OF THIS FOREGOING MOTION WAS SENT BY UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE ON THIS 4 DAY OF MAY 2012 TO THE FOLLOWING:

DAVID GAREAU

23823 LORAIN ROAD, SUITE 200

NORTH OLMSTED, OHIO 44070

/s/ Mariah Crenshaw

Mariah Crenshaw, Pro Se

3472 E 114th Street

Cleveland, Ohio 44014

216.240.5669

mariahcren@consultant.com

[SEE APPENDICE A IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE APPENDICE B IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE APPENDICE C IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE APPENDICE D IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE APPENDICE E IN ORIGINAL]
