ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR PRESENTED BY APPELLANT

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NUMBER ONE:

THE TRIAL COURT IMPROPERLY GRANTED THE PLAINTIFF APPELLEES MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS.

ISSUES FOR REVIEW PRESENTED BY APPELLANT

1. Whether the trial court properly granted Appellees motion for judgment? (relating to Assignment of Error No. 1).

2. Whether the trial court erred in failing to admit evidence of the condition of the premises and Landlord's failure to make repairs (relating to Assignment of Error No.1).

3. Whether the trial court erred in ruling in Appellees' favor on Appellees' first cause of action, i.e. granting a Writ of Restitution to Appellee, St. Joseph Investments, LLC (relating to Assignment of Error No. 1 and No. 2).

I. STATEMENT OF THE CASE.

Appellant Larry Ealy ("Appellant" or "Ealy") appeals to this Court regarding a forcible entry and detainer proceeding commenced by Appellee St. Joseph Investments, LLC ("Appellee" or "STJ") on June 26, 2006 (Dayton, Ohio Municipal Court Case No. 06-CVG-6791) (See Exhibit 1 Complaint in Forcible Entry and Detainer). STJ's Complaint alleged non-payment of rent by Ealy and his wife, Belinda Ealy and sought possession of the premises occupied by Ealy, his wife and other family members located at 975 Harvard Ave., Apt. 1, Dayton, Ohio 45406 ("premises"). Of the three claims included in STJ's Complaint only the first cause of action for forcible entry and detainer has been adjudicated. STJ's first cause of action in forcible entry and detainer was first heard by the trial court on July 21, 2006, then again on August 4, 2006 and again on October 6, 2006. Ealy appeared at the first hearing on July 21, 2006, failed to appear at the second hearing on August 4, 2006 and appeared at the third hearing on October 6, 2006, before Judge Robert Manning, at which hearing Ealy was represented by attorney, Theodore G. Gudorf (See Exhibit 4 Not. of Appearance, 8/29/06). Additional hearings (from the July 21st hearing) were held in response to objections filed by Ealy to decisions rendered by the Magistrates at the earlier hearings to permit Ealy to present additional evidence. (See Exhibit 6 Order, 10/2/06)

On October 6, 2006 a trial was held at which time, STJ and Ealy, represented by counsel, were permitted to present additional evidence to the trial court. At such hearing Ealy was given the opportunity to present evidence and defenses to STJ's request for restitution of the premises for nonpayment of rent. After hearing all evidence, the trial court found that STJ had met its burden establishing its right of restitution and that Ealy had failed to establish a valid defense and ruled in favor of STJ and granted possession of the premises to STJ. (See Exhibit 5 Decision and Order, 10/6/06).

Appellant filed an appeal from this October 6, 2006 Decision and Order.

STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED FACTS

STJ owns property located at 975 Harvard Ave., Dayton, Ohio. In February, 2006 STJ entered into a lease agreement with Ealy and his wife, Belinda Ealy pursuant to which STJ agreed to lease Apt. 1 to Ealy and his wife and Ealy and his wife agreed to pay STJ monthly rent in the amount of $ 450.00.

Ealy and his wife failed to pay rent for the months of May and June, 2006. On June 14, 2006 STJ, through its agent Appellee Dayton Rental, delivered to Ealy and his wife a statutory three-day Notice to Leave the Premises in accordance with Ohio Revised Code Section 1923.04. (See Exhibit "A" to STJ's Complaint) by leaving such Notice at the premises.

Ealy appeared before the Magistrate at the first hearing on July 21, 2006 and admitted that Ealy and his wife did not pay rent for May or June, 2006 in accordance with the terms of the lease.

Ealy admitted at the trial held on October 6, 2006 that he and his wife had defaulted under the lease by failing to pay monthly rent for May and June, 2006

Ealy and his wife at no time prior to any of the three hearings held on this matter sought to avail themselves of remedies afforded to them pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section 5321.07. Ealy and his wife did not deposit rent in escrow with the Clerk of Court or seek any other remedy.

At the trial held on October 6, 2006 Ealy was represented by counsel and was provided the opportunity to present evidence of STJ's failure to make repairs and any other alleged defenses.

The trial court after a hearing on the merits found that Ealy's evidence did not constitute a meritorious defense to Ealy's non-payment of rent and the trial court ordered that a Writ of Restitution be issued to restore possession of the premises to STJ.

ARGUMENT

For almost one year Ealy has frustrated STJ's right to possession of the premises by delays and endless filings in Dayton, Ohio Municipal Court and with this Court. Appellant's Brief is representative of Ealy's abuse of the judicial system to deny STJ restitution of the premises granted by the Dayton, Ohio Municipal Court on three separate occasions. At no time in any prior proceedings or to this Court has Ealy presented any recognized, meritorious defense to the eviction proceedings undertaken by STJ or any error by the trial court. Ealy's Brief states as his Assignment of Error that the lower court erred granting judgment on the pleadings. The lower court did not enter any judgment on any motion by the Appellee or otherwise. The decision of the lower court was entered after a trial on the merits. (See Exhibit 5 Decision and Order, 10/6/06). More to the substance, there is nothing in the record indicating that the trial court refused to review testimony or evidence proffered by Ealy. The trial was held on October 6, 2006. Ealy's First Assignment of Error cites as support an inspection report from the City of Dayton, Ohio. However, this report is dated November 20, 2006, over one month after the hearing and five (5) months after the eviction proceeding commenced. This report is not part of the record and cannot be considered by this Court. (See Part II below) Likewise the matter of the garage lease cited in Appellant's Second Assignment of Error was not offered as a defense by Ealy at trial, so is not part of the record and cannot be considered by this Court.

Ealy does not cite any statutory law or case law in support of his claim that the trial court erred in granting a Writ of Restitution. Further, Ealy does not cite the record in support of any claimed error by the trial court. Ealy's argument consists of ramblings of incidents, most of which occurred after the trial held on October 6, 2006. Of those incidents that are alleged 10 have occurred prior to the October 6, 2006 trial, these are not related to the lease, Ealy's non-payment of rent or any meritorious defense for non-payment of rent and STJ's entitlement for restitution of the premises. Those incidents alleged to have occurred after the October 6, 2006 trial are not part of the record and are not properly before this Court. (See Part II below.)

Accordingly, the trial court's Decision and Order must be affirmed in its entirety, the stay of the Writ of Restitution should be lifted and STJ should finally be permitted to regain possession of the premises.

I.  APPELLANT'S APPEAL SHOULD BE DISMISSED FOR FAILING TO COMPLY WITH RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE AND THE COURT'S ORDER.

While Appellant has filed this Appeal pro se and for this reason the Court has given Appellant some latitude in requiring Appellant to comply with the Rules of Appellate Procedure, this Appeal should be dismissed because the Appellant has not only failed to comply with numerous Rules but also has failed to comply with the express Order of this Court. The effect of Appellant's failure has only served to benefit Appellant by delaying this Court's action on this Appeal. Pursuant to App. Rule 9(B) the appellant at the time of filing the notice of appeal "shall" order a transcript of the proceedings. Appellant's Notice of Appeal was filed in October, 2006 and Appellant has failed to provide the transcript to complete the record. By Order dated May 30, 2007 this Court ordered that Appellant complete the record, including a transcript of proceedings, by not later than June 18, 2007. Appellant was aware of this Order, as it was cited in Appellant's Brief. Pursuant to App. Rule 13(B) copies of all documents filed by a party are to be served on the other party or, if a party is represented by counsel, on counsel to the other party. At no time has Appellant served any document filed with this Court on Appellee or Appellee's counsel. Also, Appellant's Brief fails to comply with App. Rule 16 in many respects.

Appellant has failed to comply with the Rules of Appellate Procedure and failed to complete the record in accordance with this Court's Order. For these reasons, the Court should strike Appellant's Brief and dismiss this Appeal.

II.  MATTERS CONTAINED IN APPELLANT'S BRIEF OUTSIDE OF THE RECORD SHOULD BE STRICKEN.

Appellant has attached a number of exhibits and photographs to his Brief. Appellant has also included in his Brief claims against numerous parties, including Appellees, and City of Dayton, Ohio governmental officials. These exhibits and photographs are not part of the official record. The City of Dayton, Ohio inspection report is dated November 20, 2006, after the date of the trial. Unless an exhibit or other attachment to an appellate brief appears in the record it is not part of the appellate record and cannot be considered. Isbell v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan (1993) 85 Ohio App.3d 313. The factual assertions against the Appellees and others are in large part not part of the official record. Likewise, alleged facts contained in a party's brief, but not in any papers submitted to the trial court, do not constitute part of the official record on appeal and the appellate court may not consider such assertions when deciding the merits of the case. Kercher v. Brown (1947) 49 Ohio L. Abs. 25. The exhibits and photographs and alleged facts contained in Appellant's Brief should be stricken and not considered by this Court.

III.  THE TRIAL COURT DID NOT ERR IN GRANTING A WRIT OF RESTITUTION TO APPELLANT.

Appellant's Brief is replete with complaints and allegations against the trial court, the Mayor of the City of Dayton, City inspectors, City police officers and the Appellee. However, the only issue that could conceivably be before this Court is whether the trial court erred in granting the Writ of Restitution for 975 Harvard Ave., Apt. 1, Dayton, Ohio to restore possession to STJ.

It is undisputed that STJ entered into a lease with Ealy and his wife for the premises and that the monthly rent was $ 450.00. It is undisputed that Ealy and his wife did not pay rent for May or June, 2006. It is undisputed that STJ delivered a statutory three-day notice to vacate the premises.

The only defense raised by Ealy with the trial court and to this Court is the failure of the Appellee to make repairs. It is settled law in Ohio that the landlord's failure to make repairs or the condition of the premises sought to be repossessed may not be raised as a defense to the eviction unless the tenant has deposited rent into escrow with the Clerk of Court voluntarily or by court order pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section 5321.07. Smith v. Wright (1979), 65 Ohio App.2d, 101. In eviction proceedings, the trial court my exclude evidence concerning the condition of the premises if offered by the tenant as a defense to the landlord's action for restitution where the tenants admitted they were not current in their rental payments, had not paid any rent in five months and had not made any escrowed rental payments to the court. Martins Ferry Jaycee Housing, Inc. v. Pawlaczyk, (1982) 4 Ohio App.3d 302. Despite the condition of the rental property, a landlord will be entitled to possession of the premises if the tenant has no valid defense to the eviction action. In an action for forcible entry and detainer to determine the landlord's right of possession of the premises, the unfit condition of those premises can be in issue only if the tenant is current in his rental payment having paid them either directly to his landlord or having deposited them into court. Smith, 65 Ohio App.2d, at 109.

Appellant cites no case law in his Brief in support of any meritorious defense to the trial granting of the writ of restitution. Two of the cases cited by Appellant, the Fisher and Scott cases, have no relevance to the trial court's decision or this Appeal. The Fisher case concerned claims for damages for conversion and improper entry, neither of which is before this Court. The Scott case was an appeal of a lower court's grant of summary judgment of a negligence claim involving a handrail. While the Showe case cited by Appellant is, in part, an eviction case, the lease in that case was a HUD lease, with different standards for eviction, and the Showe court did not address any issues that were otherwise relevant to this case.

Neither Appellant or his wife deposited rent in escrow with the court pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section 5321.07. The Appellant and his wife did not submit to the trial court and do not have any legal defense to the eviction at trial. The trial court rightly found that having failed to comply with the statutory requirements of Revised Code 5321.07 Appellant's allegations of STJ's failure to repair the premises were not a valid defense to the eviction. The trial court's decision must be affirmed.

CONCLUSION.

The Appellant's Assignment(s) of Error should be overruled, the trial court's Decision and Order dated October 6, 2006 must be affirmed in its entirety and all stays should be lifted. Appellant failed to cite any error by the trial court in rendering its decision and failed to cite any defense to the eviction or legal basis for this Appeal.

Respectfully submitted,

By /s/ [Signature]

David L. Layman (0006151)

580 Lincoln Park Blvd.

Ste. 133

Kettering, Ohio 45429

Phone: 937-296-0365

Fax: 937-296-0368

laymanlaw@aol.com

Attorney for Plaintiff-Appellees,

Dayton Rental and St. Joseph

Investments, Inc.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I hereby certify that a copy of the Answer Brief of Appellees Dayton Rental and St. Joseph Investments, Inc. was served upon Appellant, Larry Ealy by ordinary U.S. mail this 9th day of July, 2007.

/s/ [Signature]

David L. Layman

[SEE EXHIBIT 1 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 2 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 3 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 4 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 5 IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT 6 IN ORIGINAL]
