RESPONSE TO APPELLANT'S ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

1. The trial court correctly granted Travelers and Century's motion for summary judgment.

2. The trial court correctly denied relief from the court's final November 22, 2002 judgment when the clerk clearly had served proper notice of that judgment to all parties, despite Sherwin-Williams' asserted failure to receive that notice.

3. The trial court appropriately exercised its discretion in deciding Sherwin-Williams' motion for relief from judgment without a hearing.

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES PRESENTED

1. Whether environmental pollution liabilities excluded by the pollution exclusion may be recast by Sherwin-Williams as claims for "personal injury" coverage in contravention of the plain language of the Travelers and Century policies and in violation of the public policy of Ohio.

2. Whether the trial court abused its discretion by finding that Ohio R. Civ. P. 60(B) did not entitle Sherwin-Williams to relief from a judgment that had clearly been properly served by the clerk on all parties.

3. Whether the trial court abused its discretion by declining to grant a hearing to Sherwin-Williams' on its motion for relief under Ohio R. Civ. P. 60(B) when that Rule does not provide the type of relief sought by Sherwin-Williams.

4. Whether the trial court's denial of Sherwin-Williams' motion for relief under Ohio R. Civ. P. 60(B) deprived Sherwin-Williams of due process of law, when the judgment from which it sought relief had been properly served by the clerk in accordance with Ohio R. Civ. P. 58 and controlling Ohio Supreme Court precedent.

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

The case currently before this Court is Sherwin-Williams' second attempt to obtain coverage for its environmental pollution liabilities under the "personal injury" coverage in its insurance policies. In 1990, Sherwin-Williams first sued its insurers in Sherwin-Williams v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., et al., No. 199868 (Cuyahoga Cty. Ct. C.P.) ("Sherwin-Williams I"), attempting to argue, among other things, that the "personal injury" provision in the policies covered environmental pollution. The trial court granted summary judgment for the insurers regarding four test sites, and Sherwin-Williams dismissed the remainder of the case without prejudice pursuant to an Agreement as to Dismissal with its insurers. See Record 102, Tab A. That Agreement provided inter alia that, if Sherwin-Williams ever sought to renew its claims for insurance coverage, the trial court's decisions in Sherwin-Williams I would "be binding and treated as the law of the case" (id. at 3), and that any such renewed suit would have to be filed before December 31, 1999.

On the eve of the permanent bar date contained in the Agreement as to Dismissal, Sherwin-Williams refiled its claims in the present case, again seeking insurance coverage under the "personal injury" provision for its environmental pollution liabilities. After the parties stipulated to pertinent basic facts, Travelers and Century moved for, and were granted summary judgment. On November 22, 2002, the clerk served the parties with notice of that judgment and duly made a notation on the docket to that effect.

Months later, Sherwin-Williams, having failed to take a timely appeal from the judgment, filed a motion for relief from the trial court's final November 22, 2002 judgment. Although Sherwin-Williams asserted that it did not receive notice of the judgment, Sherwin-Williams presented no evidence to demonstrate that the clerk had failed properly to serve notice of the judgment in compliance with the Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure. See Record 112, 113. The trial court accordingly denied Sherwin-Williams' motion for relief from judgment on April 17, 2003. See Record 115. The trial court did direct the clerk to re-serve notice of the November 22, 2002 judgment upon the parties. See id. Although there is no evidence in the record that notice of the November 22, 2002 judgment was ever re-served, Sherwin-Williams noticed the present appeal. Even if the judgment had been re-served, that act could not restart the thirty-day clock on Sherwin-Williams' right to appeal the November 22, 2002 judgment, and its appeal from that decision remains untimely. 1

STATEMENT OF FACTS

I.  Facts Relating to the Trial Court's April 17, 2003 Order

The trial court awarded summary judgment to Travelers and Century on November 22, 2002. That same day, the clerk docketed the court's signed Journal Entry, issued notice to the parties of the Journal Entry, and indicated on the court's docket that "Notice Issued," thereby complying with all of the requirements of Ohio R. Civ. P. 58 governing service of judgments. See Record 111. Shortly after the entry of judgment, counsel for both Century and Travelers received postcard notice of its entry. See Record 112, Tab 2(A). The court's docket, which included an entry for the court's summary judgment ruling, was continuously accessible via the court's web site.

More than four months after the November 22, 2002 judgment became final, Sherwin-Williams moved for relief from the judgment. See Record 113. Sherwin-Williams presented the trial court with a number of affidavits endeavoring to show that it had not received notice of the November 22, 2002 judgment. See Record 112; see also Appellant's Brief, at 4-7. Travelers and Century do not dispute the facts outlined in these affidavits, but, rather, note that the affidavits fail to address the pertinent point, namely, whether the clerk made proper and effective service of notice of the judgment. The only fact that matters is that the clerk of courts properly served the November 22, 2002 judgment in accordance with Ohio Rules. Sherwin-Williams has presented absolutely no evidence to rebut that conclusion, and all of the evidence regarding service -- the docket entry reflecting "Notice Issued" and the actual receipt of notice by two of the three parties -- supports it. As detailed below, Sherwin-Williams' asserted failure to receive a properly served notice creates no grounds for relief.

II.  Facts Underlying the Trial Court's Summary Judgment Ruling

The trial court found that the "personal injury" provisions of insurance policies issued to Sherwin-Williams by Travelers and Century (the "Policies") did not provide coverage for a group of claims that will be referred to here, as they were in the trial court, as the "Environmental Pollution Claims." The Environmental Pollution Claims were brought against Sherwin-Williams by private parties and federal and state environmental agencies at more than 100 sites nationwide because of the pollution that allegedly resulted from Sherwin-Williams' routine disposal of hazardous wastes generated during the course of its manufacturing operations. Sherwin-Williams stipulated that each of the Environmental Pollution Claims "arose from the discharge, dispersal, release or escape of toxic chemicals, waste materials, or other irritants, contaminants or pollutants into or upon land, the atmosphere or any body of water." See Record 92 (Stipulation of Facts), at P 2. The parties also agree that the "discharge, dispersal, release or escape of toxic chemicals, waste materials, or other irritants, contaminants or pollutants into or upon land, the atmosphere or any body of water at the sites [at issue in this case] was not sudden or accidental." Id. P 3. Sherwin-Williams further concedes that insurance coverage for the Environmental Pollution Claims at issue in this case is barred under the "property damage" and "bodily injury" provisions of Travelers and Century's policies by the pollution exclusion contained in those policies. See id., at P 2.

Before the trial court, Sherwin-Williams asserted that the Environmental Pollution Claims "involve allegations that are, in essence, allegations of 'wrongful entry and eviction' or 'invasions of the right of private occupancy.'" See Record 88, at P 13 (emphasis added). By characterizing the Environmental Pollution Claims in this fashion, Sherwin-Williams hoped to obtain coverage under the Policies' "personal injury" provisions. In describing the personal injury provisions to this court, however, Sherwin-Williams omitted significant language that lends context to the selected portions it quoted. See Appellant's Brief, at 2-3. Each of the Policies affords "personal injury" coverage (subject to any and all other applicable conditions, limitations and exclusions contained in the Policies) when one or more of the following offenses is committed in the conduct of the insured's business:

Go to table2

Record 96, Tab A; Record 97, Tab A.

Each of the Policies also contains a pollution exclusion, which bars coverage for:

bodily injury or property damage arising out of the discharge, dispersal, release or escape of smoke, vapors, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, toxic chemicals, liquids or gases, waste materials or other irritants, contaminants or pollutants into or upon land, the atmosphere or any watercourse or body of water; but this exclusion does not apply if such discharge, dispersal, release or escape is sudden and accidental.

Id. Although Sherwin-Williams contends that, as a factual matter, the pollution exclusion is of no relevance to its claims under the personal injury provision (see Appellant's Brief, at 3), such an argument runs counter to the general rule that the policy must be read as a whole. Additionally, many courts have rejected such a contention, and have determined interrelation of these policy provisions as a matter of law.

Travelers and Century presented the trial court with three independent grounds justifying summary judgment in their favor. First, the law of the case doctrine precluded Sherwin-Williams' from re-litigating whether the personal injury provisions of the Policies provide coverage for the Environmental Pollution Claims, an issue that Sherwin-Williams lost in Sherwin-Williams I. Second, the "pollution exclusion" in the policies plainly barred insurance coverage for Sherwin-Williams' polluting activities, however denominated by Sherwin-Williams. Third, under the plain language of the insurance contracts, environmental damage arising from Sherwin-Williams' routine manufacturing and waste disposal activities did not, as a matter of law, constitute a "personal injury" offense within the meaning of the personal injury endorsement itself. Record 103. The trial court granted summary judgment that the personal injury provisions "do not provide coverage for the environmental pollution claims," without specifying which of these arguments formed the basis for its decision. Record 111. Although Sherwin-Williams contends that the trial court "implicitly rejected" Travelers and Century's law of the case argument (see Appellant's Brief, at 4), there is nothing in the trial court's decision that supports this assertion.

ARGUMENT

I. THE TRIAL COURT DID NOT ABUSE ITS DISCRETION IN DENYING SHERWIN-WILLIAMS' MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM A JUDGMENT THAT HAD CLEARLY BEEN PROPERLY SERVED BY THE CLERK AND ACTED PROPERLY IN RULING ON THAT MOTION WITHOUT A HEARING.

(Response to Appellant's Second and Third Assignments of Error)

Sherwin-Williams asserts that the trial court abused its discretion by denying its Motion for Relief from Judgment ("Motion for Relief"), and by making that decision without a hearing. Sherwin-Williams premised its claim to relief on its allegation that it never "received" postcard notice of the trial court's November 22, 2002 Judgment. Appellant's Brief at 17-23 (emphasis added). In the absence of the relief it sought, Sherwin-Williams' appeal, which was filed more than 5 months after final judgment was entered, is clearly untimely under Ohio R. App. P. 4(A). In the circumstances presented here, well-established Ohio law explicitly precludes Sherwin-Williams' claim. The Ohio Supreme Court has mandated that a party's failure to receive notice will not affect the validity of a judgment or the running of the time for appeal so long as the trial court and clerk follow the dictates of Ohio R. Civ. P. 5 and 58. See Atkinson v. Grumman Ohio Corp., 37 Ohio St. 3d 80, 80 (Syllabus P 2) (1988). In this case, those Rules on entry and notice of judgment were followed. Accordingly, Sherwin-Williams' claim that it did not receive notice of the court's November 22, 2002 judgment is wholly irrelevant and provides no basis to challenge the trial court's denial of Rule 60(B) relief. Because Sherwin-Williams' affidavits claiming that it failed to receive notice provide no evidence of operative facts justifying relief, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by ruling without a hearing. See Hornyak v. Brooks, 16 Ohio App. 3d 105, 106 (8th Dist. 1984).

Sherwin-Williams' appeal to this Court from the November 22, 2002 judgment must be dismissed because it is untimely and this Court is without jurisdiction to hear it. It is axiomatic that, in the absence of Sherwin-Williams' timely compliance with the Ohio Rules, this Court lacks jurisdiction to consider the merits of Sherwin-Williams' claims. See Rundle v. Rundle, 123 Ohio App. 3d 304, 305-06 (8th Dist. 1997) ("[w]here an untimely appeal has been filed, an appellate court lacks jurisdiction to consider the merits, and the appeal must be dismissed"); also Bosco v. City of Euclid. 38 Ohio App. 2d 40, 43 (8th Dist. 1974) ("[f]ailure to file a timely notice of appeal is jurisdictional generally subject to no exceptions in a civil case . . .without such timely filing the Court of Appeals is 'without jurisdiction' to entertain the appeal"). Sherwin-Williams pins its claim to this Court's jurisdiction on the trial court's April 17, 2003 order, which denied Sherwin-Williams' Motion for Relief but which directed the clerk to re-serve notice of the November Journal Entry. See Record 115. That instruction, however, did not (and could not) revive Sherwin-Williams' long-expired period for appeal or provide this Court with jurisdiction. See Kertes Enterprises, Inc. v. Planning Zoning Commission of Orange Village, 68 Ohio App. 3d 48, 49 (8th Dist. 1990); Rose v. Rose, 23 Ohio App. 2d 201, 202 (12th Dist. 1970). As a matter of well-established Ohio law, this appeal must be dismissed.

A.  The Trial Court Did Not Abuse Its Discretion By Denying Sherwin-Williams' Motion For Relief Under Rule 60(B).

Decisions on Civ. R. 60(B) motions are discretionary and may only be reversed where that discretion has been abused. Swaney v. Swaney, No. 99- G-2243, 2000 WL 1121803, * 2 (Ohio Ct. App. 11th Dist. Aug. 4, 2000) (citing Griffey v. Rajan, 33 Ohio St. 3d 75, 77 (1987)). "An abuse of discretion connotes more than a mere error of law or judgment; rather, it implies that the trial court's attitude was unreasonable, arbitrary, or unconscionable." Id. (citing Blakemore v. Blakemore, 5 Ohio St. 3d 217, 219 (1983)). In this case, the trial court acted squarely within the permissible scope of its discretion because its denial of Sherwin-Williams' Motion for Relief was plainly compelled by the law of Ohio and the facts presented.

Sherwin-Williams' Rule 60(B) motion sought relief from its failure to file a timely appeal pursuant to Ohio R. App. P. 4(A). A party's thirty-day period to file an appeal begins to run when: (1) the court signs the judgment and the clerk enters the judgment on the docket, (2) the clerk serves notice of judgment and its date of entry, which service is complete upon mailing of the notice, and (3) the clerk enters on the docket that notice has issued. See Ohio R. App. P. 4(A); Ohio R. Civ. P. 58(A)-(B), 5(B) ("[s]ervice by mail is complete upon mailing"); City of Whitehall v. Bambi Motel, Inc., 131 Ohio App. 3d 734, 741 (10th Dist. 1998). In this case, each of the required court actions that trigger the running of the appeal period was completed in November 2002. On November 22, the signed Journal Entry was recorded on the docket, along with the clerk's endorsement that notice was issued. See Record 111. Given the fact that other parties received notice postcards, it is clear that the clerk actually served notice. See Record 112, Tab 2(A). Sherwin-Williams' period to appeal thus expired in December 2002.

To avoid the consequences of having missed its period for appeal, Sherwin-Williams argued that it never received postcard notice of the November 22, 2002 judgment. See Appellant's Brief at 20 (urging that "[t]he affidavits demonstrating that Sherwin-Williams did not receive notice of the November 22 order clearly warranted the relief requested . . . "). Ohio law is clear, however, that a party's actual receipt of notice of a judgment is irrelevant to determining when the time period for an appeal runs. The Ohio Supreme Court, addressing this precise issue in Atkinson v. Grumman Ohio Corp., 37 Ohio St. 3d 80, 80 (Syllabus P 2), 86 (1988), described the steps that courts must follow to provide litigants with reasonable notice of their decisions and thereby satisfy due process. Atkinson held that:

Syllabus by the Court

2a. Within three days of the entry of any final appealable judgment or order, the clerk of courts shall serve a notice of entry in any manner provided in Civ. R. 5, upon every party who is not in default for failure to appear.

b. The clerk shall make a notation in the case docket indicating that the required service has been made.

c. Once the clerk has served notice of the entry and entered the appropriate notation in the docket, the notice shall be deemed to have been served. The failure of any party to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of the judgment or the running of the time for appeal.

Id., at 80 (Syllabus P 2) (emphasis added); see also Nichols v. Sidney Motors, 61 Ohio App. 3d 590, 592 (9th Dist. 1988).

In this case, there is no legitimate dispute that the clerk fully complied with all of Atkinson's requirements. In November 2002, the Journal Entry was recorded on the docket, along with the clerk's endorsement that notice was issued. See Record 111. Where, as here, the docket reflects that notice was issued, courts routinely presume that the parties were properly served. See Walker v. Kilbane Koch, 98 Ohio St. 3d 295, 296 (2003) (when "[t]he docket . . . establishes that notice of the judgment . . . was issued to all parties," one party's "assertion" to the contrary is "meritless"); Johnson v. Meridia Euclid Hospital, No. 80072, 2002 WL 485768, * 2 (Ohio App. 8th Dist. Mar. 28, 2002) ("notice shall be deemed to have been provided once the clerk has served notice of the entry and made the appropriate notation on the docket"); Hershbain v. City of Cleveland, No. 60631, 1992 WL 126017, * 4 (Ohio App. 8th Dist. June 4, 1992) (where Civil Rules on service are followed and docket indicates that notice has been sent, it is presumed that service has occurred). The fact that multiple separate counsel received actual postcard notice of the Court's ruling strongly supports this presumption. See Record, No. 112, Exhibit 2(A).

When confronted with similar circumstances, Ohio appellate courts, including courts in this district, have routinely approved the refusal to grant relief under Rule 60(B). See Swaney, 2000 WL 1121803 at * 3 (finding it improper under Rule 60(B) to vacate a judgment entry "so that a new identical entry might be filed, thereby permitting [appellant] to pursue an appeal"); Sanate v. Park Ohio Indus. Tocco Div., No. 52809, 1987 WL 18272, * 2 (Ohio Ct. App. 8th Dist Oct. 8, 1987); Almira Paci, Etc. v. Buckeye Union Ins. Co., No. 47659, 1984 WL 5069, * 2 (Ohio App. 8th Dist. June 14, 1984); cf. Bosco, 38 Ohio App. 2d at 44 (affirming denial of Rule 60(B)(5) motion based on party's failure to receive notice of entry of judgment when judgment had been docketed and published, because Rule 60(B) cannot be "used to circumvent the policy of App. R. 4(A) establishing an appeal period of thirty days"). These cases dictate that the trial court was compelled to deny Sherwin-Williams' Motion for Relief.

None of the cases upon which Sherwin-Williams relies supports its assertion that Rule 60(B) allows relief where a party does not receive actual notice. Sherwin-Williams relies primarily on Defini v. City of Broadview Heights, 76 Ohio App. 3d 209 (8th Dist. 1991). Unlike the present case, the appellant in Defini sought relief because the clerk failed to send notice, not because the party seeking relief failed to receive notice. See 76 Ohio App. 3d at 214. Additionally, the party seeking relief from judgment in Defini provided an affidavit from an employee of the clerk's office stating "no mail service had been issued." Id. The affidavits supporting the Defini decision thus go to the heart of the issue -- whether notice of the judgment was properly sent. The affidavits submitted by Sherwin-Williams, to the contrary, focus solely on its failure to receive postcard notice and thus do not rebut the presumption of service.

Sherwin-Williams also relies heavily on Bancroft v. Communicators, Inc., 34 Ohio App. 3d 165 (8th Dist. 1986) and Steadley v. Montanya, 67 Ohio St. 2d 297 (1981). Unlike Bancroft and Steadley, a presumption of service arises in this case because the docket states that notice was given. See Steadley, 67 Ohio St. 2d at 299; Bancroft, 34 Ohio App. 3d at 170. Bancroft and Steadley are also distinguishable because, in both of those cases, the trial court made an oral promise to grant a hearing before ruling on the motion that was the subject of its judgment, and then breached that oral promise. See Bancroft, 24 Ohio App. 3d at 168-69; Steadley, 67 Ohio St. 2d at 299. The courts' breaches of their oral promises made the judgments in those cases premature and justified relief under Rule 60(B). See id. Such circumstances do not exist here.

Appellant's reliance on Wiley v. Gibson, 125 Ohio App. 3d 77, 82-83 (5th Dist. 1997), is likewise misplaced, as that case dealt with how the court should treat what it deemed to be a premature appeal of an arbitration award. Significantly, Wiley did not address whether the court had provided notice to the plaintiff of the panel's decision. Finally, Sherwin-Williams cites Moldovan v. Cuyahoga County Welfare Department, 25 Ohio St. 3d 293, 295-96 (1986), and Hager v. General Electric Co., No. 61735, 1991 WL 264563 (Ohio App. 8th Dist. 1991). These cases stand merely for the proposition that litigants are entitled to reasonable notice of final appealable orders. Reasonable notice is, however, defined by Atkinson. See Atkinson, 37 Ohio St. 3d at 86 (clarifying Moldovan); Hagar, 1991 WL 264563, at * 2. As discussed above, the clerk in this case satisfied each of Atkinson's requirements.

B.  The Trial Court Did Not Abuse Its Discretion By Ruling On Sherwin-Williams' Motion For Relief Without A Hearing.

A movant requesting relief from judgment is not automatically entitled to a hearing and the decision to grant or deny such a hearing is within the discretion of the trial court. Gorka v. Gorka, No. L-98-1435, 1999 WL 628683, * 2 (Ohio App. 8th Dist. Aug. 20, 1999); Hornyak, 16 Ohio App. 3d at 106. A trial court's refusal to grant a hearing before ruling on a Rule 60(B) motion is not an abuse of discretion, and may not be overturned if, as here, the movant fails to provide evidence of operative facts that would justify relief under Rule 60(B). See Gorka, 1999 WL 628683, * 2; Hornyak, 16 Ohio App. 3d. at 106.

Sherwin-Williams' sole evidentiary support for its Rule 60(B) motion were affidavits indicating that it failed to receive notice of the judgment. See Appellant's Brief at 17-23. Even if such failure was conclusively established, Ohio law dictates that such a showing is irrelevant when the rules on entry and notice of judgment have been followed. See Atkinson, 37 Ohio St. 3d at 80 (Syllabus P 2). Because Sherwin-Williams' affidavits did not provide operative facts that could justify relief, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by ruling on Sherwin-Williams' Rule 60(B) motion without granting a hearing. See id. Gorka, 1999 WL 628683, * 2; Hornyak, 16 Ohio App. 3d. at 106.

C.  The Trial Court's April 17, 2003 Journal Entry Directing The Clerk To Reissue Notice Did Not Institute A Second Thirty-Day Period To Appeal Or Provide This Court With Jurisdiction.

Although the trial court properly refused to grant Sherwin-Williams' Motion for Relief, it did grant Sherwin-Williams' request that the clerk be directed to serve a second notice of the original judgment on the parties. See Record 115. Under Ohio law, reissuing notice under these circumstances has no legal effect.

Because Sherwin-Williams' Motion for Relief was denied, and because there was thus no change in the legal disposition of the case from the time of the original judgment, "the court was performing a vain and useless act" by requesting the re-service of notice "unless it did so to fix a new date for appeal." Rose, 23 Ohio App. 2d at 202. Ohio law clearly prohibits a trial court from reissuing notice solely to circumvent the limitation period set by Appellate Rule 4(A) in order to provide a party with a second period to appeal. See id. ("[t]his a trial court may not do"); Kertes Enterprises, 68 Ohio App. 3d at 49. Where the trial court reissues notice of a judgment or reenters judgment after the initial thirty-day period for appeal has expired, that action does not initiate a second period for appeal, and any appeal relying upon the reissued notice for its timeliness must be dismissed. See id. (dismissing appeal where trial court issued a second notice of judgment solely for the purpose of circumventing the App. R. 4(A) limitation period); Rose, 23 Ohio App.2d at 202 (same). In this case, the trial court's order to re-issue notice does not change the fact that Sherwin-Williams' period to appeal began in late November 2002 and ended thirty days later.

Given that the April 17, 2003 Order directing re-service of notice has no legal effect, and because the trial court was well within its discretion in denying Sherwin-Williams' Rule 60(B) Motion without a hearing, the appeal of the November 22, 2002 Judgment is untimely. Consequently, this Court lacks jurisdiction and this appeal must be dismissed. See Rundle, 123 Ohio App. 3d at 305-06;Bosco, 38 Ohio App. 2d at 43.

II.  THE TRIAL COURT CORRECTLY GRANTED TRAVELERS AND CENTURY'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT.

(Response to Appellant's First Assignment of Error)

When a trial court's decision to grant summary judgment is appealed, the appellate court engages in a de novo review of the trial court's ruling. See Doe v. Shaffer, 90 Ohio St. 3d 388, 390 (2000). When the issue is, as here, the proper construction of language in a contract, the court analyzes the plain meaning of the language of that contract, giving effect to all of its provisions. See Hybud Equip. Corp. v. Sphere Drake Ins. Co., 64 Ohio St. 3d 657, 665 (1992). Sherwin-Williams' citations to authority suggesting that courts should go out of their way to construe insurance policies in favor of insureds are inapplicable to the situation presented here, because the terms of the contracts are unambiguous and reasonable minds can come only to the conclusion that "personal injury" coverage cannot be expanded to provide coverage for the Environmental Pollution Claims brought against Sherwin-Williams. As the trial court properly found, the Policies' pollution exclusions specifically preclude coverage for the environmental harm arising from the Environmental Pollution Claims. Further, these Environmental Pollution Claims do not fall within the scope of "personal injury" offenses listed in the Policies.

A.  The Pollution Exclusion In The Policies Precludes Coverage For Pollution- Generated Injury Or Damage, Regardless Of The Type Of Coverage Sought Under The Policies.

There is no dispute that the Environmental Pollution Claims allege that Sherwin-Williams caused "property damage." Further, there is no dispute that the Policies' pollution exclusion, which expressly applies to property damage, bars property damage coverage for the Environmental Pollution Claims. Sherwin-Williams urges this Court to create and throw open a back-door for coverage under the "personal injury" provisions, despite the Policies' pollution exclusion. Sherwin-Williams contends that the Policies' unambiguous pollution exclusions do not apply to its claims under the Policies' personal injury provisions simply because they are contained in a different section of the Policies and do not explicitly state that they apply to personal injury offenses. See Appellant's Brief, at 14-17.

Sherwin-William's oversimplification ignores the crucial issue of how all of the Policies' provisions interact. Ohio courts have repeatedly emphasized that insurance policies, like any other contract, should be construed by giving effect to the plain meaning of all unambiguous policy terms. See, e.g., Hybud Equip. Corp., 64 Ohio St. 3d at 665. Courts must read insurance policies as a whole and give effect to all of a policy's provisions, rather than interpreting particular sections in isolation. See Foster Wheeler Enviroresponse, Inc. v. Franklin Cty. Convention Facilities Auth., 78 Ohio St. 3d 353, 362 (1997) (citing Farmers' Nat'l Bank v. Delaware Ins. Co., 83 Ohio St. 309, 316 (1911) (syllabus)); Chirchiglia v. Ohio Bureau of Workers' Comp., 138 Ohio App. 3d 676, 679 (Mahoning Cty. 2000); Ottery v. Bland, 42 Ohio App. 3d 85, 87 (Franklin Cty. 1987).

Examining the Policies in their entirety reveals that Sherwin-Williams cannot recover for the Environmental Pollution Claims under the "personal injury" provision of the Policies because the pollution exclusion necessarily applies to all of the various coverages afforded by the Policies. To conclude otherwise would render the pollution exclusion surplusage and would encourage environmental polluters simply to recast their property damage claims as personal injury claims without regard to the existence of the pollution exclusion. Permitting coverage for pollution-related injury or damage under the Policies' personal injury provisions would also permit Sherwin-Williams to circumvent the well-recognized public policy of Ohio that negligent polluters should be responsible for the damage they cause to the environment because "the financial burden for gradual or long-term pollution" should be placed "upon the entity best able to foresee and stop it." Hybud, 64 Ohio St. 3d at 667.

Sherwin-Williams is simply wrong when it asserts that "[b]y its terms, the pollution exclusion does not apply to the personal injury endorsement." Appellant's Brief, at 14. The pollution exclusion does not state that it is inapplicable to personal injury arising from the offenses listed in the personal injury endorsement when that personal injury also constitutes property damage. Inferring such a result from the pollution exclusion's silence is an unwarranted limitation on the policy. As the Connecticut Supreme Court recently explained:

the fact that [c]overage . . . for "personal injury" does not contain its own pollution exclusion clause merely points out that the insurance company never contemplated (justifiably) that [personal injury coverage] might be interpreted to cover pollution damages to land, given the context of the whole policy . . . . We could entertain speculation as to why [one insurer] decided to include, in its pollution exclusion clause, reference to "personal injury," while [another insurer] did not. We cannot, however, reasonably assume from this fact that [the second insurer] intended to include coverage for these pollution related claims under its personal injury provisions.

Buell Industries, Inc. v. Greater New York Mutual Ins. Co., 791 A.2d 489, 510 n.28 (Conn. 2002) (quoting W.H. Breshears, Inc. v. Federated Mutual Ins. Co., 38 F.3d 1219, 1994 WL 577258 (9 th Cir. 1994). Viewed as a whole, the policy clearly states that property damage caused by pollution is not covered, and Sherwin-Williams' attempt to recharacterize claims that involve clear instances of property damage as something else simply cannot avoid the unambiguous pollution exclusion.

Sherwin-Williams' additional arguments about how the Policies could have been written differently, and its references to language contained in policies issued by insurance companies that are not before this Court (see Appellant's Brief, at 14-15) are completely beside the point and fly in the face of well-established Ohio law about how contracts should be construed. It is elementary that extrinsic evidence of contracts entered into at other times, and with other parties, such as that offered by Sherwin-Williams, is irrelevant to interpreting the unambiguous contracts before this Court. See United States Fid. & Guaranty Co. v. St. Elizabeth Medical Center, 129 Ohio App. 3d 45, 55-56 (2d Dist. 1998) (rejecting court's consideration of extrinsic evidence, namely other contracts, to inform its understanding of contract whose meaning could be determined from the "four corners of the agreement" and was thus unambiguous). Accordingly, Sherwin-Williams' references to those other contracts should be disregarded. 2

Sherwin-Williams fails to acknowledge or address the majority of cases that have considered insurance policies containing both a pollution exclusion and a personal injury provision -- and have concluded that the pollution exclusion applies to claims under the personal injury provision. The national trend, exemplified by decisions from the courts of Connecticut, New York, California, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Michigan, has been to reject the position advanced by Sherwin-Williams and to agree that a policy's pollution exclusion applies to that policy's personal injury coverage as well. 3

The only Ohio Court of Appeals to have considered the interaction of a policy's pollution exclusion and personal injury endorsement rejected the position taken by Sherwin-Williams and concluded that a policy's pollution exclusion applies to all coverages. See Morton International, Inc. v. Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 106 Ohio App. 3d 653, 671 (1995) (applying Washington law, which relied on the same general principles of insurance contract law applied by Ohio courts). In Morton, the insured sought a declaration that the policy covered property damage and personal injury resulting from environmental contamination. See id. at 656. The court held that the policy's pollution exclusion applied to the entire policy:

[u]nder the construction of the policies urged by [the insured], those pollution-related claims that are eliminated from coverage by the pollution exclusion would nevertheless be included in the personal injury endorsement. It would be illogical to conclude that the claims fail because of the pollution exclusion while also concluding that the insurer wrote a personal injury endorsement to cover the same eventuality.

Id. at 671 (citations omitted). 4

Many courts in other jurisdictions have similarly held that a policy containing a pollution exclusion does not provide coverage for pollution-related property damage under the policy's personal injury provisions. For example, in County of Columbia v. Continental Ins. Co., 83 N.Y.2d 618 (1994), the leading national case on this issue, New York's highest court reasoned that:

[u]nder the construction of the policies urged by [the policyholder], those pollution related claims that are eliminated from coverage by the pollution exclusion would nevertheless be included in the personal injury endorsement. However, such construction does not give full force and effect to the words in the policy. An insurance contract should not be read so that some provisions are rendered meaningless . . . It would be illogical to conclude that the claims fail because of the pollution exclusion while also concluding that the insurer wrote a personal injury endorsement to cover the same eventuality. Thus, we conclude that the coverage provided for in the personal injury endorsement is not available to injuries arising from pollution-generated property damage.

Id. at 628; see also Buell, 791 A.2d at 510 ("we will not stretch the personal injury provisions to cover a claim that another area of the policy clearly excludes"); Lakeside Non-Ferrous Metals, Inc. v. Hanover Ins. Co., 172 F.3d 702, 705 (9th Cir. 1999) (applying California law) (concluding that coverage for pollution-related property damage made pursuant to nuisance and trespass theories was precluded by the policy's pollution exclusion); Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. FAG Bearings Corp., 153 F.3d 919, 923 (8th Cir. 1998) (applying Missouri law) (holding that the pollution exclusion applies to bar coverage for personal injury claims resulting from contaminated drinking water); Harrow Prod., Inc. v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co., 64 F.3d 1015, 1024-25 (6th Cir. 1995) (applying Michigan law) ("the personal injury endorsement as written does not contemplate coverage for damage to property by pollution . . . [t]o hold otherwise would be to contradict the express provisions of a pollution exclusion clause"); A.J. Gregory, Jr. v. Tenn. Gas Pipeline Co., 948 F.2d 203, 209 (5th Cir. 1991) (applying Louisiana law) ("extending pollution coverage under the personal injury endorsement would render the pollution exclusion meaningless"); Titan Corp. v. Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 27 Cal. Rptr. 2d 476, 486 (Cal. Ct. App. 1994) ("finding pollution coverage under personal injury coverage would simply render the pollution exclusion a dead appendage to the policy"); O'Brien Energy Sys., Inc. v. American Employers' Ins. Co., 629 A.2d 957, 963-64 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1993) (holding that extension of personal injury coverage to environmental damage claims "would emasculate the clear and unambiguous provisions of the pollution exclusion and could not be justified except as an unwarranted straining to reach a different result than that intended by the parties").

Those few cases where coverage has been found to exist under a personal injury endorsement for environmental contamination involve situations where the pollution exclusion did not apply regardless of the type of injury claimed. In Titan Holdings Syndicate, Inc. v. City of Keene, 898 F.2d 265 (1st Cir. 1990), on which Sherwin-Williams relies, two homeowners sued the City of Keene alleging that the City's sewage treatment facility invaded their home with noises, gaseous odors and bright lights. See id. at 267. The court, applying New Hampshire law, found that injury arising from loud and disturbing noises, unduly bright lights and noxious odors constituted invasions of the property owners' quiet enjoyment and use of their homestead, for which personal injury coverage existed under the policy. See id. at 268. The court then concluded that the policy's pollution exclusion did not apply because the disturbing noises and bright light were not "pollutants" within the meaning of the policy. See id. at 268-69. 5 In another case on which Sherwin-Williams relies, Martin Marietta Corp. v. Ins. Co. of N. Am., 47 Cal. Rptr. 2d 670 (Ct. App. 1996), the court found that coverage for environmental pollution claims potentially existed under the policy's personal injury provisions, but only because the insurance policy did not contain a pollution exclusion. 6 See id. at 678. Such cases expressly distinguish their analysis from cases involving policies with pollution exclusions. See id.; cf. Kitsap Cty. v. Allstate Ins. Co., 964 P.2d 1173, 1182 (Wash. 1998) (explaining that the question of whether a pollution exclusion applied to personal injury claims was not presented and expressly declining to address that issue).

The nationwide trend towards rejecting personal injury coverage for pollution-related claims is demonstrated by the fact that a number of the cases on which Sherwin-Williams relies have been implicitly overruled. Two of the eight cases Sherwin-Williams cites, Gould, Inc. v. Arkwright Mut. Ins. Co., 829 F. Supp. 722 (M.D. Pa. 1993), and Napco, Inc. v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co., No. 90-0993, 1991 WL 734015 (W.D. Pa. May 22, 1991), are federal trial court opinions that incorrectly predicted Pennsylvania law. A subsequent Pennsylvania appellate court decision, which applies a policy's pollution exclusion to preclude coverage under the personal injury endorsement, is the correct pronouncement of Pennsylvania law. See O'Brien Energy Sys., Inc. v. American Employers' Ins. Co., 629 A.2d 957, 963-64 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1993) (holding that extension of personal injury coverage to environmental damage claims "would emasculate the clear and unambiguous provisions of the pollution exclusion and could not be justified except as an unwarranted straining to reach a different result than that intended by the parties"). Similarly, another federal court case on which Sherwin-Williams relies, Scottish Guarantee Ins. Co. v. Dwyer, 19 F.3d 307, 309 (7th Cir. 1994), has not been adopted by the state whose law it claims to predict, Wisconsin. A subsequent Wisconsin decision confirms that Wisconsin courts will apply a policy's absolute pollution exclusion to its personal injury provision. See Production Stamping Corp. v. Maryland Cas. Co., 544 N.W.2d 584, 587-88 (Wis. Ct. App.), review den., 549 N.W.2d 734 (Wis. 1996). 7

This Court should follow the national trend of cases that apply the pollution exclusion to claims for environmental damage under personal injury coverage, because the contrary approach suggested by Sherwin-Williams is inconsistent with the interpretation of the pollution exclusion under Ohio law. Sherwin-Williams commends to this Court cases applying Illinois, Wisconsin, and Indiana law which hold that the pollution exclusion does not apply to environmental claims under the personal injury coverage. 8 Contrary to Ohio law, these states undercut the force of the pollution exclusion by holding that it is ambiguous and thus may not apply to claims of gradual pollution. 9 See Hybud, 64 Ohio St. 3d at 665-66 (finding that the pollution exclusion is unambiguous and should be applied to claims of gradual pollution); Employers Insurance of Wausau v. Amcast Industrial Corp., 126 Ohio App. 3d 124, 131 (2d Dist. 1998); Seegott v. Great American Ins. Co., No. 69401, 1996 WL 417219, at * 5-6 (Ohio Ct. App. 8th Dist. July 25, 1996). 10 Given the choice between following Illinois, Wisconsin, and Indiana cases, which marginalize the pollution exclusion, or following competing cases from California, Connecticut, Michigan, New York, and Pennsylvania, states which -- like Ohio -- give effect to the pollution exclusion, 11 this Court should make a principled decision to follow those cases most consistent with Ohio law and should conclude that the pollution exclusion precludes coverage for Sherwin-Williams' claims under the personal injury provisions of the Travelers and Century policies.

In sum, Sherwin-Williams should not now be permitted to escape the Policies' controlling pollution exclusion simply by recasting its property damage claims as personal injury claims. This Court should adopt the compelling logic of cases like Morton and County of Columbia and reject an interpretation of the Policies that would undermine their pollution exclusion by providing coverage for environmental damage caused by pollution despite the unambiguous language of the exclusion.

B.  Even if the Pollution Exclusion Does Not Apply to the Policies' "Personal Injury" Coverage, the Environmental Pollution Claims Facing Sherwin-Williams Are Not "Personal Injury" Offenses.

In addition to the clear bar to coverage for the Environmental Pollution Claims posed by the Policies' pollution exclusions, the Environmental Pollution claims are also not covered under the Policies because they do not allege "personal injury" offenses. Sherwin-Williams overstates the breadth of the issue that must be decided by this Court. See Appellants' Brief, at 7. Rather than examining whether any claim, implicating any form of harm to the environment, could be covered under the Policies, this Court must determine whether the Environmental Pollution Claims, described in Sherwin-Williams' Amended Complaint and the parties' Stipulation of Facts, constitute "personal injury" offenses. The trial court correctly concluded that they do not. This Court should do the same.

The "personal injury" endorsement in the Policies affords coverage only for injuries arising from specifically-listed offenses involving intentional tortious conduct against a person. As the Florida Court of Appeal succinctly observed, "personal injury is injury to a person." Leek v. Reliance Ins. Co., 486 So.2d 701, 704 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1986). The Policies' list of personal injury offenses includes torts such as "false arrest," "malicious prosecution," "libel," "slander," and "utterance[s] in violation of an individual's right to privacy," that plainly have nothing to do with environmental pollution claims, and reinforce that the thrust of personal injury coverage is to insure against damages arising from tortious conduct committed against a person. As one Ohio court recognized, the categories of "personal injury" offenses for which coverage is provided "all vindicate personal interests rather than [an] economic interest in property." Hahn's Electric Co. v. Cochran, Nos. 01-1391, 01-1394, 2002 WL 31111850 (Ohio Ct. App. 10th Dist. Sept. 24, 2002) (finding that "slander to title" claim is not the type of "slander" against a person that is encompassed by a policy's personal injury endorsement). In its citations to the Policies' language, Sherwin-Williams omits all reference to the other listed personal injury offenses, apparently in hopes that this Court will ignore the context of the final group of personal injury offenses, the torts of "wrongful entry or eviction, or other invasion of the right of private occupancy," on which it pins its claims. See Appellant's Brief, at 3, 8.

Plainly, the torts of "wrongful entry or eviction, or other invasion of the right of private occupancy" do not embrace damage to the environment caused by long-term waste disposal because they -- like the other personal injury torts named in the Policies such as libel, false arrest, or malicious prosecution -- concern only damages to an individual's personal feelings, or purposeful acts aimed at the infringement of a possessory interest in property (for example, in the landlord-tenant context). Many courts have thus concluded that claims for "trespass-by-pollution, that is, the release or discharge of pollutants from an insured's property that caused property damage elsewhere" are not covered under such personal injury provisions because "such a discharge is not the 'offense' of wrongful entry or invasion encompassed by subpart c of the definition of personal injury." Royal Ins. Co. of Am. v. Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine, 191 F.3d 959, 963 (8th Cir. 1999). 12

Sherwin-Williams argues that the Environmental Pollution Claims allege the offenses of "wrongful entry" or "other invasion of the right of private occupancy." Appellant's Brief, at 9-12. Neither offense can be manipulated to apply to the Environmental Pollution Claims.

1. The Environmental Pollution Claims do not allege "wrongful entry. "

No reported Ohio cases have discussed the tort of "wrongful entry." Where the tort is recognized, it generally involves matters concerning possessory interests between a landlord and its lessees. See, e.g., Dryden Oil Co. of New England, Inc. v. Travelers Indem. Co., 91 F.3d 278, 285-88 (1st Cir. 1996) (applying Massachusetts law) (the Massachusetts tort of wrongful entry has yet to be extended beyond trespasses by landlords upon the leased premises"). Although Sherwin-Williams cites Biomedical Innovations, Inc. v. McLaughlin, 103 Ohio App. 3d 122, 127 (Franklin Cty. 1995), for the proposition that Ohio courts have equated "wrongful entry" with "trespass" (see Appellant's Brief, at 10), the court in that case nowhere purported to be recognizing a new tort in Ohio. Rather, the court merely spoke offhandedly of an "alleged wrongful entry" when discussing a claim that had been brought for an employee's unauthorized access to his employer's offices. 13 Because Ohio does not recognize the tort of "wrongful entry," Sherwin-Williams' Environmental Pollution Claims cannot, as a matter of law, constitute such a tort. Regardless, the tort of trespass is not one of the torts listed in the definition of "personal injury." Sherwin-Williams' Environmental Pollution Claims do not involve any conduct that constitutes a tort under Ohio law that is listed in the personal injury provision.

Even if the court were to treat the offense of "wrongful entry" in the personal injury provision as going beyond its traditional tort definition, Sherwin-Williams' Environmental Pollution Claims still do not fall within that term. In construing the offense of "wrongful entry" in the insurance context, most courts have concluded that "wrongful entry" exists only when a malfactor intentionally interferes with the possessory rights of another person. See County of Columbia v. Continental Ins. Co., 83 N.Y.2d 618, 627 (1994); City of Delray Beach v. Agric. Ins. Co., 936 F. Supp. 931, 939 (S.D. Fla. 1994), aff'd, 85 F.3d 1527 (11th Cir. 1996) (applying Florida law). Thus, "indirect and incremental harm" arising from the gradual, unintended spread of pollution cannot constitute a "wrongful entry" because "wrongful entry," like the other torts listed in the personal injury endorsement, requires some purposeful intent by the allegedly tortious actor. See County of Columbia, 83 N.Y.2d at 627; see also Dryden Oil Co., 91 F.3d at 285-88 ("the definition of personal injury . . . is very limited" and "wrongful conduct comprehended by the 'personal injury' coverage . . . amounts to an intentional tort under Massachusetts law" (emphasis in original)).

Because "wrongful entry" requires intentional wrongdoing, it is clear that the Environmental Pollution Claims do not fall within its scope. Sherwin-Williams argued, in the prior phase of this litigation, that it did not intend to cause pollution damage to the environment when it disposed of its wastes and pollutants. See, e.g., Record 100, Tab 12, at 11. It cannot now reverse position and argue that it intended to pollute property in the vicinity of its disposal sites. Nor can it argue that it intentionally disposed of wastes in order to interfere with its own possessory rights at sites which it formerly owned. Nor can it argue that it intentionally interfered with a landfill owner's possessory interest in landfill sites where Sherwin-Williams' disposal of hazardous wastes occurred only by agreement of the landfill owner, in exchange for a fee. Because Sherwin-Williams alleges that its polluting conduct was unintentional, it cannot constitute the intentional offense of "wrongful entry."

An Ohio case squarely point supports this position. In Celina Mutual Ins. Co. v. Marathon Oil Co., No. 96-civ-021, slip op. at 4-5 (Mercer Cty. C.P. Jan. 21, 2000), the court held that personal injury coverage was unavailable for cleanup costs resulting from a gasoline spill because the spill was not a wrongful entry within the language of the policy. That finding was undisturbed on appeal. See Celina Mutual Ins. Co. v. Marathon Oil Co., No. 10-2000-03, 2000 WI. 743703, at * 8 (Ohio Ct. App. 3d Dist. June 8, 2000).

The cases recognizing that purposeful intent by the alleged wrongdoer is an essential element of a "wrongful entry" offense are better reasoned and more consistent with the Policies' language than those cases cited by Sherwin-Williams, which conflate wrongful entry with trespass. Particularly when considered in the context of the other torts listed in the personal injury provision -- which all require intentional wrongdoing -- the words of the phrase emphasize that the act of entry itself must be wrongful.

2. The Environmental Pollution Claims do not allege an "other invasion of the right of private occupancy."

Sherwin-Williams' contention that the "other invasion of the right of private occupancy" language encompasses the Environmental Pollution Claims is inconsistent with the language of the Policies, and similar claims have been routinely rejected by courts in other jurisdictions.

In the Policies, the "other invasion of the right of private occupancy" language immediately follows "wrongful entry or eviction" and must be interpreted by reference to the latter phrase, as well as the other torts listed in the Policies' personal injury provisions. Ohio courts frequently employ this method of contract interpretation, known as the doctrine of ejusdem generis. See Light v. Ohio Univ., 28 Ohio St. 3d 66, 68 (1986) (explaining the rule that, "where general words follow the enumeration of particular classes of things, the general words will be construed as applying only to the same general class as those enumerated") (emphasis added); see also Henley v. City of Youngstown Bd. of Zoning Appeals, 99 Ohio St. 3d 142,150-51 (2000) (noting that a general term should be determined with reference to specific terms expressly included with it). Sherwin-Williams concedes that this is the correct analytical approach and relies on cases that purport to apply ejusdem generis to analyze the phrase "other invasion of the right of private occupancy." See Appellant's Brief, at 10-11. The primary cases on which Sherwin-Williams relics, however, misapply this doctrine. See id. This principle does not operate to "write out" or "delete" the general words, as Sherwin-Williams asserts (see Appellant's Brief, at 11-12), but rather to constrain the meaning of contract terminology in a way that is consistent with the language of the contract as a whole. Further, the doctrine directly contradicts Sherwin-Williams' suggestion that these particular words should be "read expansively and not limited." Id. at 11.

Applying the doctrine of ejusdem generis, and interpreting language identical to that in the Policies, the Ohio Court of Appeals held that a personal injury endorsement does not cover pollution-generated property damage:

[i]t is clear that the personal injury endorsement does not provide coverage for the claims in the underlying complaint. These allegations of continuing nuisance, continuing trespass and invasion are not among the enumerated offenses covered by the personal injury endorsement. Nor do those offenses constitute the enumerated offense of "wrongful entry or eviction or other invasion of the right of private occupancy."

Morton, 106 Ohio App. 3d at 670-71 (citing County of Columbia, 83 N.Y.2d at 627-28); see also Titan Corp., 27 Cal. App. 2d at 487 (holding that the "other invasion" language "should be interpreted to mean the functional equivalent of 'wrongful entry or eviction'"). Though Morton applied Washington law, the principles of ejusdem generis on which the court relied are the same principles that Ohio courts utilize to interpret insurance policies. See Morton, 106 Ohio App. 3d at 662-64. This court should follow Morton and conclude that allegations of gradual environmental pollution damage are not encompassed by the "other invasion" language.

Sherwin-Williams relies extensively on Martin Marietta Corp. v. Insurance Co. of N. America, 47 Cal. Rptr. 2d 670 (Ct. App. 1996), to support its argument that the environmental pollution claims may allege an "other invasion of the right of private occupancy." Though that case applied the doctrine of ejusdem generis to reach the result Sherwin-Williams advocates, that court's analysis is not applicable to the situation presented here. The insurance policies at issue in Martin Marietta did not contain pollution exclusions, unlike the Policies at issue here. See id. at 678. The Martin Marietta court placed a great deal of emphasis on the absence of pollution exclusions in the policies it interpreted, and distinguished cases construing policies like those issued by Travelers and Century. See id. at 677-79. There is absolutely no doubt that California courts, if presented with Sherwin-Williams' claims for personal injury coverage for the Environmental Pollution Claims, would find those claims to be barred by the Policies' pollution exclusion. See, e.g. Lakeside Non-Ferrous Metals, Inc. v. Hanover Ins. Co., 172 F.3d 702, 706 (9th Cir. 1999) (applying California law); Legarra v. Federated Mutual Ins. Co., 35 Cal. App. 4th 1472, 1485 (1995); Union Oil Co. of California v. International Ins. Co., 44 Cal. Rptr. 2d 4, 8-9 (Ct. App. 1995); Titan Corp. v. Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 27 Cal. Rptr. 2d 476, 486 (Ct. App. 1994).

Sherwin-Williams contends that the "other invasion of the right of private occupancy" clause must have some meaning separate from the "wrongful eviction" and "wrongful entry" clauses that precede it. See Appellant's Brief at 12. The interpretation Sherwin-Williams advances, however, is not a commonsense reading of the contract: namely, Sherwin-Williams asks this Court, in a context where the personal injury coverage is plainly directed towards intentional tortious conduct involving natural persons, to read the "other invasion" clause as some sort of carte blanche that extends coverage to property damage arising from environmental pollution.

Sherwin-Williams' failure to discuss "wrongful eviction," the only tort listed in Group C of the personal injury offenses that is expressly recognized by Ohio law, highlights Sherwin- Williams' refusal to recognize that the Policies' personal injury offenses require intentional conduct. Ohio law is clear that the tort of "wrongful eviction" requires a landlord intentionally to expel or exclude a tenant from the premises in question. See Manifold v. Schuster, 67 Ohio App. 3d 251, 259 (Highland Cty. 1990) ("[a]ctual eviction involves expulsion or exclusion from the demised premises . . . . [s]o long as the tenant remains in possession he cannot successfully maintain that he has been constructively evicted"). Sherwin-Williams apparently agrees that its Environmental Pollution Claims which arise from its unintentional polluting activities do not fall within the "wrongful eviction" language. Yet Sherwin-Williams asserts -- inconsistently -- that the same conduct does constitute an "other invasion," as well as a "wrongful entry."

In short, the Policies' personal injury provisions cover Sherwin-Williams only for a specific set of offenses committed against the person that involve purposeful conduct. Sherwin-Williams has already represented that the Environmental Pollution Claims arise out of unintentional, and not purposeful, conduct. See, e.g., Record 100, Tab 12, at 11. Furthermore, Sherwin-Williams' conduct damaged property -- not any person. As one court concluded, it is not objectively reasonable "for an insured to expect 'personal injury' to mean 'property damage,' or to expect contamination of groundwater to harm either a 'private' right or an 'occupancy' right, or to expect that a blanket pollution exclusion will never operate." Titan Corp., 27 Cal. Rptr. 2d at 486. The Policies' personal injury endorsement simply does not provide coverage for the damage caused by Sherwin-Williams' routine and long-term waste disposal activities.

C.  The Policies' Personal Injury Provisions Are Not Ambiguous, And Should Not Be Construed Against The Insurers.

Sherwin-Williams argues that the personal injury provisions in the Travelers and Century policies should be found to be ambiguous, and thus construed in its favor, simply because different jurisdictions allegedly disagree about how similar provisions should be interpreted in a wide variety of cases. See Appellant's Brief, at 12-14. Though Sherwin-Williams cites language from an Ohio case dating from 1928 to support its contention, Ohio courts simply do not follow that principle in practice. An excellent example is the Ohio Supreme Court's opinion in Hybud Equip. Corp. v. Sphere Drake Ins. Co., in which the Court found that the "sudden and accidental" pollution exclusion was unambiguous, and applied it to preclude coverage for claims arising from gradual pollution. 64 Ohio St. 3d at 667. The Supreme Court recognized that courts from other jurisdictions, as well as lower courts from Ohio, had construed the pollution exclusion differently, but concluded that those contrary decisions did not compel it to find the pollution exclusion to be ambiguous. See id. at 663-64, 667 ("the primary basis for our holding is the lack of ambiguity in the wording of the exception"). Were Ohio courts' hands, in fact, tied by the rule that Sherwin-Williams advocates, Hybud necessarily would have been decided differently. Moreover, the rule would deprive Ohio courts of the ability to make their own independent judgments about the proper construction of insurance policies whenever two other courts, no matter how poorly-reasoned their decisions, disagreed about contract language. Such a rule is neither good sense nor good public policy, and should not be adopted by this Court.

D.  The Trial Court's Holding Was Required by the Law of the Case Doctrine.

Another separate and independent ground exists for affirming the trial court's November 22, 2002 Order. 14 The law of the case doctrine precludes Sherwin-Williams' claims because they were already decided adversely to Sherwin-Williams by a final judgment that issued in an earlier phase of this litigation. Sherwin-Williams chose not to appeal that original decision and it thus became final and binding with respect to all later proceedings in this case.

In Sherwin-Williams I, the insurers moved for summary judgment on the issue of whether the pollution exclusions contained in many of the policies at issue barred coverage for four representative environmental claims. See Record 103, at 2-3; Record 98, Tab 2. Sherwin-Williams opposed summary judgment, arguing in part that coverage was available to it under the policies' personal injury provisions, and cross-moved to amend its complaint "to amplify" its allegations regarding the availability of personal injury coverage. See Record 103, at 3; Record 98, Tab 3. The parties then addressed the issue of the availability of personal injury coverage in seven additional briefs. See Record 103 at 4; Record 98, Tabs 4-5; Record 99, Tabs 6-10.

Ultimately, summary judgment was granted to the insurers. Sherwin-Williams moved for reconsideration, again emphasizing its theory that coverage for the environmental claims was available under the policies' personal injury provisions. See Record 103 at 4; Record 100, Tab 12. The insurers opposed Sherwin-Williams' motion for reconsideration, and the trial court denied it, thus dismissing all claims relating to the four representative sites. See Record 103 at 5; Record 100, Tabs 13-14.

Following the trial court's denial of its motion for reconsideration, Sherwin-Williams decided not to appeal and the trial court's judgment thus became final. Sherwin-Williams then chose to dismiss all remaining claims against its insurers without prejudice. A Stipulated Order of Dismissal was entered by the trial court on April 3, 1997. See Record 103 at 5; Record 100, Tab 15. In the accompanying Agreement as to Dismissal, Sherwin-Williams agreed that any future insurance coverage suits relating to the environmental claims at issue in Sherwin-Williams I would be treated as a continuation of that case. Specifically, the parties agreed that the court's decisions and rulings of law in Sherwin-Williams I would "be binding and treated as the law of the case" in any refiled action. See Record 103 at 5; Record 102.

The present case is a "refiled action" as described in the Agreement as to Dismissal. See id. In the present case, Sherwin-Williams seeks coverage for the previously-dismissed environmental claims under the same personal injury provisions of several of the policies that were at issue in Sherwin-Williams I. Accordingly, all of the trial court's rulings in that case, which became final when they were not appealed, constitute the law of the case for purposes of this action. See Shump v. First Continental-Robinwood Assoc., 138 Ohio App. 3d. 353, 359 (2000) (holding that law of the case doctrine applies to trial court decisions).

The doctrine of the law of the case provides that a court's decision in a case "remains the law of that case on the legal questions involved for all subsequent proceedings in the case at both the trial and reviewing levels." Nolan v. Nolan, 11 Ohio St. 3d 1, 3-4 (1984). This doctrine is designed to "ensure consistency of results in a case, [and] to avoid endless litigation by settling the issues." City of Hubbard v. Sauline, 74 Ohio St. 3d 402, 404 (1996); State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. v. Ohio Dep't of Transportation, No. 00 AP-768, 2001 WL 218641, at * 3-4 (Ohio Ct. App. Mar. 6, 2001) (concluding that unchallenged trial court rulings became law of the case when defendants failed to file a notice of appeal).

The law of the case doctrine precludes Sherwin-Williams from relitigating the issue of whether its alleged liabilities flowing from the Environmental Pollution Claims are covered under the personal injury provisions of the Policies. In Sherwin-Williams I, Sherwin-Williams presented this precise issue to the trial court. After extensive briefing on the issues surrounding whether personal injury coverage exists for environmental liabilities -- including at least ten memoranda of law -- the trial court correctly concluded that such coverage does not exist.

This Court should not countenance Sherwin-Williams' continued attempts to re-litigate an issue that has been thoroughly presented to, and carefully considered by, courts of this state. To do otherwise would eviscerate the law of the case doctrine and would encourage litigants to consume the courts' valuable resources with issues that have already been conclusively and finally determined.

CONCLUSION

The personal injury provisions of the insurance policies issued to Sherwin-Williams by Travelers and Century do not cover the Environmental Pollution Claims facing Sherwin-Williams. Coverage for the Environmental Pollution Claims is barred by the Policies' unambiguous pollution exclusion, and in any event, the Environmental Pollution Claims do not fall within the limited scope of the personal injury offenses specified by the Policies. The trial court's award of summary judgment to Travelers and Century was thus proper. Sherwin-Williams' belated challenge to that properly-served judgment, premised on Rule 60(B) was also correctly rejected by the trial court. For these reasons, both the November 22, 2002 and April 17, 2003 decisions of the trial court should be affirmed.

Dated: July 17, 2003

Respectfully submitted,

TRAVELERS CASUALTY AND SURETY COMPANY

John D. Parker (0025770)

Terry M. Brennan (0065568)

BAKER & HOSTETLER

1900 E. Ninth Street

3200 National City Center

Cleveland, Ohio 44114-3485

(216) 621-0200

/s/ [Signature]

A. Hugh Scott (admitted pro hac vice)

Kathleen A. Burdette (admitted pro hac vice)

CHOATE, HALL & STEWART

Exchange Place, 53 State Street

Boston, Massachusetts 02109

(617) 248-5000

- and -

CENTURY INDEMNITY COMPANY as

successor to CCI INSURANCE

COMPANY as successor to INSURANCE

COMPANY OF NORTH AMERICA

David J. Fagnilli (0032930)

DAVIS & YOUNG CO., L.P.A.

1700 Midland Building

101 Prospect Avenue, West

Cleveland, Ohio 44115

(216) 348-1700

/s/ [Signature]

Michael J. Baughman (admitted pro hac vice)

COHN, BAUGHMAN & MARTIN

525 West Monroe St., Suite 550

Chicago, Illinois 60661

(312) 775-3900

Table1 (Return to related document text)

RESPONSE TO APPELLANT'S ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

1

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES PRESENTED

1

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

2

STATEMENT OF FACTS

3

I.Facts Relating to the Trial Court's April 17, 2003 Order

3

II.Facts Underlying the Trial Court's Summary Judgment Ruling

4

ARGUMENT

7

I.THE TRIAL COURT DID NOT ABUSE ITS DISCRETION IN DENYING SHERWIN-WILLIAMS' MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM A JUDGMENT THAT HAD CLEARLY BEEN PROPERLY SERVED BY THE CLERK AND ACTED PROPERLY IN RULING ON THAT MOTION WITHOUT A HEARING

7

A.The Trial Court Did Not Abuse Its Discretion By Denying Sherwin-Williams' Motion For Relief Under Rule 60(B)

8

B.The Trial Court Did Not Abuse Its Discretion By Ruling On Sherwin-Williams' Motion For Relief Without A Hearing

12

C.The Trial Court's April 17, 2003 Journal Entry Directing The Clerk To Reissue Notice Did Not Institute A Second Thirty-Day Period To Appeal Or Provide This Court With Jurisdiction

13

II.THE TRIAL COURT CORRECTLY GRANTED TRAVELERS AND CENTURY'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

14

A.The Pollution Exclusion In The Policies Precludes Coverage For Pollution-Generated Injury Or Damage, Regardless Of The Type Of Coverage Sought Under The Policies

15

B.Even if the Pollution Exclusion Does Not Apply to the Policies' "Personal Injury" Coverage, the Environmental Pollution Claims Facing Sherwin-Williams Are Not "Personal Injury" Offenses

23

1.The Environmental Pollution Claims do not allege "wrongful entry."

25

2.The Environmental Pollution Claims do not allege an "other invasion of the right of private occupancy."

27

C.The Policies' Personal Injury Provisions Are Not Ambiguous, And Should Not Be Construed Against The Insurers

31

D.The Trial Court's Holding Was Required by the Law of the Case Doctrine

31

CONCLUSION

34

Table1 (Return to related document text)

Table2 (Return to related document text)

Group A-

False arrest, detention or

imprisonment, or malicious

prosecution;

Group B-

the publication or utterance of a

libel or slander or of other

defamatory or disparaging

material, or a publication or

utterance in violation of an

individual's right to privacy; except

publications or utterances in

the course or related to advertising,

broadcasting or telecasting activities

conducted by or on behalf of the

named insured;

Group C-

wrongful entry or eviction, or other

invasion of the right of private

occupancy.

Table2 (Return to related document text)
