STATEMENT OF ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR

THE PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT HAS ASSERTED THE FOLLOWING ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR:

THE TRIAL COURT ERRED AS A MATTER OF LAW WHEN IT GRANTED DEFENDANTS' MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES

I. WHETHER OR NOT APPELLEES CAN BE HELD LIABLE UNDER OHIO LAW FOR ELECTING TO CHOOSE A REMEDY OTHER THAN FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER PROCEDURES OF O.R.C. 1923.01 ET SEQ., WHERE IF, IN FACT, AN INDIVIDUAL IS AN "OCCUPIER OF LAND", OR "TENANT" UNDER O.R.C. 1923.01(A)(1) AND (5) RESPECTIVELY, THE LANGUAGE OF R.C. 1923.01(A) IS PERMISSIVE; AND WHERE THE UNDISPUTED EVIDENCE WAS APPELLANT WAS NOT A TENANT AS NO RENTAL AGREEMENT AND PAYMENT OF RENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES EXISTED, NOT REQUIRING, UNDER R.C. 5321.15(A), FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER PROCEDURES AS AN EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.

II. WHETHER OR NOT THE TRIAL COURT COMMITTED PREJUDICIAL ERROR IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT TO APPELLEES ON APPELLANT'S WRONGFUL EVICTION CLAIMS, WHEN THE TRIAL COURT MERELY CITED OGLE v. DISBROW, 2005-OHIO-4869, ONE OF SEVERAL CASES IN WHICH OHIO COURTS HAVE CORRECTLY READ OHIO'S FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER STATUTE AND LANDLORD TENANT ACT (5321.01 ET SEQ) IN PARI MATERIA; AND AS REQUIRING UNDER R.C. 5321.15(A), THE EXISTENCE OF A TENANCY UNDER AN EXISTENT RENTAL AGREEMENT WITH THE ACCOMPANYING PAYMENT OF RENT BEFORE MANDATING FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER PROCEDURES AS AN EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, AND WHERE ABSENT SUCH EVIDENCE, FORCIBLE ENTRY PROCEDURE IS A PERMISSIVE REMEDY.

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

The Appellant Michelle L. Lee filed her Complaint on October 29, 2007 against Defendants John F. Wallace, Sally Wallace, Robert L. Burke and Nancy Wallace. Plaintiff later filed an Amended Complaint deemed to be filed by the Court on May 14, 2008. In her Amended Complaint, which contained ten causes of action, Appellant alleged inter alia that when employed as a home health care worker at the home of elderly John F. Wallace, she was wrongfully evicted from the Wallace premises upon termination of her employment. Defendant John F. Wallace has passed away since the filing of the suit. Upon filing of a Suggestion of Death, Appellant's Motion for Substitution of Parties was granted on December 10, 2008, and the Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased, was substituted for Defendant John F. Wallace.

John F. Wallace is the father of Nancy Wallace and Sally Wallace. Robert Burke is the husband of Sally Wallace.

The Court's case management and pretrial orders afforded the parties opportunity to conduct discovery. The Court's orders also provided for the filing of dispositive motions. On December 23, 2008, Appellee Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased, filed its Motion for Summary Judgment asserting that there were no genuine issues of material fact and inter alia under Ohio law the estate could not be held liable to Appellant on her claim of an alleged wrongful eviction as the eviction process set forth in R.C. 1923.01 et seq. was not the exclusive procedure for removal of an occupant who was not a tenant from residential premises.

On January 27, 2009, the Court granted the Motions for Summary Judgment of Defendants Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased, and of Defendant Nancy Wallace and the Joint Motion for Summary Judgment of Sally Wallace and Robert Burke.

The Court set forth a detailed journal entry granting Appellees' Motions for Summary Judgment which stated as follows:

"The court having considered all the evidence and having construed the evidence most strongly in favor of the non-moving party, determines that reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion, that there are no genuine issues of material fact, and that defendants are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Plaintiff was not a tenant pursuant to Ohio's Landlord Tenant Act and no tenancy was created as a result of her employment. R.C. 5321.01 defines a tenant as a 'person entitled under a rental agreement to the use and occupancy of residential premises to the exclusion of others'. A person who lives in the residence of another without a rental agreement and who does not pay rent is not a tenant under Ohio law. See Ogle v. Disbrow, 2005-Ohio 4869. No rental agreement was entered into between the parties. No rent was paid by the plaintiff to the defendants. In fact, plaintiff paid rent to and maintained a residence separate from her place of employment. Therefore, plaintiff's claims based on tenancy, Counts II, V., VI and VII, must fail as a matter of law."

Appellant filed her Notice of Appeal on February 20, 2009, and the record was filed in this Court on February 23, 2009. The only portion of the trial court's ruling appealed by Appellant Lee is the granting of summary judgment in favor of Defendants-Appellees on Counts II, V, VI and VII of her Amended Complaint. The Counts cumulatively assert her cause of action for unlawful or wrongful eviction against all Defendants-Appellees. Appellant challenges the trial court's determination that as she had not entered into an oral or written rental agreement or paid rent, she was not a tenant under Ohio law and, hence, could not maintain an action for unlawful or wrongful eviction. The Appellee Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased, has since dismissed its counterclaim pursuant to Civil Rule 41(A).

Appellee Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased submits that based upon the record before it and the law in the State of Ohio, this Honorable Court should affirm the ruling of the trial court.

STATEMENT OF THE FACTS

In 2007, an elderly John F. Wallace suffered a number of physical ailments resulting in his inability to care for himself. As he did not want to leave his home of more than 50 years, his daughters, Appellees Sally and Nancy Wallace, arranged for home health care to be provided at his home on Braemar Road in Shaker Heights, Ohio.

When two part-time home healthcare assistants could not provide sufficient hours to accommodate their father's home care needs, Sally and Nancy Wallace placed an advertisement in the Cleveland Plain Dealer in August of 2007 for a full-time home healthcare position. Appellant Michelle L. Lee responded to the advertisement and interviewed with Appellee Nancy Wallace and met with John Wallace several days later to discuss the job position (Lee Depo. T-59). Appellant was offered the job after the meeting. There was no written contract of employment.

Appellee Sally Wallace had been granted a power of attorney over John F. Wallace in 2003 as a result of his declining health. Pursuant to her employment, Appellant was to report to Appellee Sally Wallace with regard to all employment issues (Lee Depo. T-67). Appellant understood that she was an at-will employee subject to termination at any time (Lee Depo. T-92). Appellant also understood that Appellee Sally Wallace had the authority to terminate her employment at any time (Lee Depo. T-67).

As a full-time care giver, Appellant was required to stay in the Braemar Road home overnight on nights she was working in her employment as John Wallace periodically needed assistance during the night (Sally Wallace Depo. T-40). As a result, Appellant was provided with a room to stay in while on duty as an accommodation for her employment (Sally Wallace Depo. T-40, 41).

Appellant admits that she did not pay rent to the Wallaces and that nothing was taken from her employment check for rent (Lee Depo. T-92, 93).

Appellant did not list the Braemar Road home as her address on her driver's license (Lee Depo. T-19). In fact, Appellant was paying rent to a former employer, Mrs. Demko, to hold a room available at her house in Mentor, Ohio in case her employment with John Wallace did not work out (Lee Depo. T-20-23). Neither Appellant's bank accounts nor her voter's registration listed the Wallace residence as her address. Appellant never mailed out a change of address card. Appellant did not inform her auto insurer of any change of address when she began her employment with Mr. Wallace (Lee Depo. T-28-32).

Appellant admitted when she provided 24 hour residential home care for a previous employer, Mr. Rice, in early 2007 she did not consider his home to be her residence (Lee Depo. T-36).

On October 5, 2007, Appellant was terminated from her at-will employment and asked to immediately leave the Wallace resident (Wallace Depo. T-37-40). The decision to terminate Appellant was made jointly by John Wallace and Sally Wallace (Sally Wallace Depo.T-37-40). However, Mr. John Wallace was not present at his residence in Shaker Heights at the time of Appellant's termination as a precautionary measure for fear of repercussions (Lee Depo. T-149; 9-13).

Appellant testified she was not claiming that John Wallace personally terminated her services, nor was she claiming that he had ordered her to leave or had her removed from the premises (Lee Depo. T-148-149; T-176). Appellant testified that John Wallace treated her fairly in all respects (Lee Depo. T-176; 17-19).

John F. Wallace passed away on September 5, 2008. His estate was substituted as a party Defendant on December 10, 2008.

LAW AND ARGUMENT

I.  ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR ONE

THE PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT HAS ONLY ASSERTED THE FOLLOWING ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR:

THE TRIAL COURT ERRED. AS A MATTER OF LAW. WHEN IT GRANTED DEFENDANTS' MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Under Ohio law an individual who lives in a residence with another for whatever purpose without a rental agreement and without the payment of rent is not a tenant and cannot maintain an action for wrongful eviction. According to Ms. Lee, Appellees ousted her from her place of residence at the Wallace home illegally, without following the procedures required for a forcible entry and detainer (FED) action under Chapter 1923 of the Ohio Revised Code.

The two issues presented by Appellant are premised on the argument that the trial court improperly applied Ohio law to undisputed facts established by documentary evidence, not disputed in the instant appeal. The cases cited by Appellant do not accurately state the law governing a cause of action for wrongful eviction in the circumstances presented in the case sub judice. Appellee will address the two issues presented jointly as they both address whether the trial court properly applied Ohio law to the undisputed facts.

As a matter of law, Appellees' actions in removing Appellant from the Wallace premises were not in violation of Ohio law and the trial court properly granted the portions of Appellees' Motions for Summary Judgment addressing such claims, finding that Appellant's claims based on tenancy in Counts II, V, VI and VII failed as a matter of law.

Numerous Ohio courts have issued decisions which support the trial court's ruling that the Landlord Tenant Law and the Forcible Entry Detainer Law, in pari materia, do not require utilization of Ohio's unlawful detainer procedures as set forth in R.C. 1923.01 et seq. where no oral or written rental agreement has been entered into between the parties and no rent has been exchanged between the parties. The trial court, in its journal entry, merely cited one of the cases by stated, "See, Ogle v. Disbrow, 2005-Ohio-4866".

In Ogle v. Disbrow, 6th Dist. Nos. L-04-1373, L-05-1102, 2005-Ohio-4869, Plaintiff-Appellant Ms. Ogle had moved into Defendant-Appellee Disbrow's house in 1999. In September of 2003, while outside the home, she was handed a note which stated she would no longer be permitted to reside in Mr. Disbrow's home and the locks had been changed. Ms. Ogle's amended complaint set forth a claim for wrongful eviction alleging Mr. Disbrow's self-help eviction was in violation of Ohio law.

In its decision affirming the trial court's granting of summary judgment in favor of Defendant-Appellee Disbrow, the Sixth District Court of Appeals determined an element of an action for wrongful eviction for failing to follow the procedures set forth in Ohio's Forcible Entry and Detainer statutes is the existence of the landlord-tenant relationship as defined in Ohio's Landlord Tenant Act, Chapter 5321. The court determined the existence of the landlord-tenant relationship mandated the exclusive remedy of forcible entry and detainer under R.C. 1923.01 et seq. Absent evidence mat the specific relationship of landlord-tenant had been entered into between the parties, which the trial court found the record did not include, no cause of action could lie because Ohio's forcible entry and detainer procedure would not be the only procedure by which defendant-appellee could remove Ms. Ogle. Significantly, in reaching its decision, the court stated as follows:

"Appellant also asserts she set forth a cause of action for unlawful eviction. This argument is premised on appellant's belief that she possessed status as a tenant, not a social guest, while living with appellee, because they had an agreement concerning the use and occupancy of the home. There is no evidence in the record that the parties entered into a rental agreement of any sort or that either of them considered her a tenant in the home. At the hearing on appellant's motion for a temporary restraining order, appellant testified appellee never asked her to pay rent while she lived with him and stated she moved in at his invitation." Id at P17.

Further, the Ninth District Court faced a very similar legal issue and followed the legal analysis of Ogle v. Disbrow, Supra., in Stone v. Cazeau, 9th Dist. No. 07CA009164, 2007-Ohio-6213. In Stone v. Cazeau the defendant-appellee Cazeau had lived in his home with the plaintiff-appellant, Ms. Stone, for four years before he asked his daughter, co-defendant-appellee Nixon, to bar Ms. Stone from his home as he had decided to sell his home and give control of his assets to Ms. Nixon. Mr. Cazeau asked his daughter to remove Ms. Stone from his home in order to attempt to sell it. Acting on her father's instructions, Ms. Nixon blocked the plaintiff's access to the home by chaining the entrance door closed and changing the locks. In reaching its decision to uphold the trial court's granting of summary judgment in favor of the defendants-appellees, the court stated as follows:

"According to Ms. Stone, Mr. Cazeau ousted her from her place of residence illegally, without following the procedures required for a forcible entry and detainer action under Chapter 1923 of the Ohio Revised Code.

"The Landlord-Tenant Act, Chapter 5321 of the Ohio Revised Code, regulates the relationship between residential landlords and their tenants. Section 5321.15(A) provides that landlords may only evict residential tenants by following the procedures set forth in Chapters 1923, 5303 and 5321 of the Ohio Revised Code. Section 5321.01(B) defines a landlord as 'the owner, lessor, or sublessor of residential premises, the agent of the owner, lessor, or sublessor, or any person authorized by the owner, lessor, or sublessor to manage the premises or to receive rent from a tenant under a rental agreement.' A tenant is an individual who is 'entitled under a rental agreement to the use and occupancy of residential premises to the exclusion of others', while a rental agreement is 'any agreement or lease, written or oral, which establishes of modifies the terms, conditions, rules, or any other provisions concerning the use and occupancy of residential premises by one of the parties'. Pursuant to Sections 5321.01(A) and (D) of the Ohio Revised Code, a tenant at will is 'one who, under the terms of a written lease agreement, continues in a tenancy as long as the parties agree'. Freedline v. Cielensky, 115 Ohio App. 183, 141 (1961), quoting Say v. Stoddard, 27 Ohio St. 478 (1875). An individual who lives in a residence with another without a rental agreement and without the payment of rent is not a tenant and cannot maintain an action for wrongful eviction. Ogle v. Disbrow, 6th Dist. Nos. L-04-1373, L-05-1102, 2005-Ohio-4869, at P17. Id at Paragraphs 5-6." (Emphasis added).

In Amick v. Sickles, 4th App. Dist. No. 07-CA-6, 2008-Ohio-3913, defendant-appellant Deborah Sickles and her then husband, Michael Robinson, resided for six years in the home of Michael's mother, Mary Robinson. During this entire period, defendant-appellee and her husband Michael lived in the house rent free. It was undisputed that there was no written or oral lease between defendant-appellant Deborah Sickles and Michael and Mary Robinson regarding the occupation of the home.

In 2006, when defendant-appellant and her husband began divorce proceedings, Michael moved out of his mother's home, but defendant-appellant Sickles continued to reside at Mary's home without payment rent. Mary sold the property to plaintiff-appellee Amick, a friend of her son Michel. Shortly thereafter, plaintiff-appellee Amick commenced proceedings to evict defendant-appellant Sickles. The trial court, the Athens Municipal Court, eventually granted a judgment of eviction, issuing a writ of eviction against defendant-appellant Deborah Sickles. On appeal, defendant-appellant Sickles inter alia challenged plaintiff-appellee Amick's complaint in forcible detention eviction for failure to meet a 30 day notice requirement of R.C. 5321.17. R.C. 5321.17 requires a landlord to serve a 30 day notice on a month-to-month residential tenant.

Defendant-appellant Sickles unsuccessfully attempted to attack the eviction on the ground that failing to meet the 30 day notice of R.C. 5321.17 was a jurisdictional bar to the trial court proceeding on appellee Amick's complaint for eviction. The Fourth Appellate District Court found that defendant-appellant was not a tenant and therefore could not challenge the eviction order based on lack of jurisdiction for failure to meet requirements of R.C. 5321.17:

"A lease is a conveyance of an estate in realty for a limited term, with conditions attached, in consideration of rent, and anything which creates the relationship of landlord and tenant.*** As such, the term lease encompasses a month-to-month leases which arise by implication or oral agreement whereby the landlord-tenant relationship is created." Swartz v. Schutte (Jan. 9, 1991), 9th Dist. No. 14717, 1991 WL 2022 at *2. In the case sub judice, no lease of any kind was established between appellant and Mary. Appellant admits that she had no real agreement with the owner regarding the occupation of the home. It is undisputed that appellant lived rent free. Further, the trial court found that appellant had given no consideration in return for residing in this house, either to appellee or Mary. Because there was no consideration, no landlord-tenant relationship was established. 'An individual who lives in a residence with another without a rental agreement and without the payment of rent is not a tenant and cannot maintain an action for wrongful eviction." Athens App. No. 07 CA6 9. Stone v. Cazeau, 9th Dist. No. 07CA 009164, 2007-Ohio-6213, at P6, citing Ogle v. Disbrow, 6th Dist. Nos. L-04-1373 and L-05-1102, 2005-Ohio-4869, at P17. Because appellant did not hold the property as a periodic tenant, R.C. 5321.17, governing the termination of periodic tenancies, was not applicable. Thus, R.C. 5321.17(B) could not be a jurisdictional bar to the trial court to proceed on appellee's complaint. Id. At P18-19."

Defendant-appellant Sickles also attempted to challenge plaintiff-appellee Amick's judgment of eviction on the ground that she failed to give proper notice under R.C. 1923.04. The appellate court in Amick also rejected that jurisdictional challenge. The court found as proper notice was given under R.C. 1923.04, the trial court had subject-matter jurisdiction to hear plaintiff-appellee Amick's complaint in forcible entry and detainer on its merits.

The plaintiff-appellee in Amick, Supra, chose to avail herself of the remedy of forcible entry and detainer procedures of R. C. 1923.01 et seq. However, despite Appellant Lee's unsubstantiated argument to the contrary in the case at bar, a reading of the above cases and Chapters 1923 and 5321, in pari materia, reveals that where no tenancy has been established and no rent paid, Ohio's forcible entry and detainer procedure, set forth in R.C. 1923.01 et seq. Is not the only remedy by which a landowner may remove an occupant who is not a tenant.

Appellant Lee argues at Page 10 of her Brief that even if R.C. 5321 is not applicable, the trial court did not even need to consider whether she possessed a tenancy in John Wallace's residence because R.C. 1923.02 requires evictions to be filed against two classes of persons:

"(1) Against tenants or manufactured residence park residents holding over their terms;

(5) When the defendant is an occupier of lands or tenements, without color of title, and the complainant has the right of possession to them;"

Importantly, Appellant fails to include the first sentence of R.C. 1923.02(A) which precedes these two subsections on which she relies: "Proceedings under this chapter may be had as follows:" (Emphasis added)

The Ohio legislature has not mandated FED procedures to be required in all situations where a "tenant holds over his term" or "the defendant is an occupier of land or tenements". As acknowledged previously by this court in Northfield Park Associates v. Northeast Ohio Harness (1987), 36 Ohio App.3d 14, 521 N.E. 2d 466, the legislature specified in 1974 by enacting 5321.15(A) that the exclusive remedy of forcible entry and detainer procedures is required in a specific situation, i.e. where a landlord seeks to dispossess a residential tenant. The court found that the legislature mandated the exclusive remedy of forcible entry and detainer in the situation of residential tenancy by enacting R.C. 5321.15(A) which reads as follows:

"No landlord of residential premises shall initiate any act, including termination of utilities or services, exclusion of the premises, or threat or any unlawful Act, against a tenant, or a tenant whose right to possession has terminated, for the purpose of recovering a possession of residential premises, other than as provided in Chapters 1923, 5303 and 5321 of the Revised Code." (Emphasis added)

The Ninth District, in Stone v. Cazeau, Id, at P6, infra, also cited R.C. 5321.15(A) , when it made its determination that the existence of a tenancy is the determinative factor in triggering the mandatory, exclusive remedy of FED procedures in the context of residential premises.

As stated by this court in Northfield Park Associates v. Northeast Ohio Harness:

"The legislature has taken no action concerning the use of self-help in the case of tenancies involving other than residential premises. The fact it has considered self-help inappropriate in residential situations, but has enacted no legislation prohibiting such provisions in commercial settings, must weigh against a finding that these provisions are against public policy. Id at Pg. 474."

* * *

"We cannot say, as a matter of law, that a self-help provision in a commercial lease is against public policy where repossession of the premises takes place without a breach of the peace and with the acquiescence of the lessee or its agent, especially when the parties voluntarily entered into the lease agreement knowing full well the nature and implication of the self-help provision contained therein. The legislature in its wisdom has determined not to enact legislation prohibiting such provisions in commercial leases. We will not now do what the legislature has chosen not to do. Id at Pg. 474-475"

See also, Craig Wrecking Co. v. S.G. Loewendick & Sons (1987), 38 Ohio App.3d 79, 526 N.E.2d 321, in which the Tenth District Court of Appeals cited Northfield Park Associates v. Northeast Ohio Harness, Id, in support of its holding that Chapter 1923 is not the exclusive remedy available to commercial lessors who seek to repossess their property upon default of the tenant. The Court stated:

"Clearly, contrary to the finding of the court below, the provisions of Chapter 1923 do not apply to commercial premises. Were it otherwise, the reference to residential tenants in R.C. 1923.02(A)(8) and to occupiers of the lands under R.C. 1923.02(A)(5) would have little meaning. Moreover, the case law in Ohio supports this view. Ashbury United Methodist Church v. Bowers (1980), 68 Ohio App.2d 193, 22 O.O.3d 287, 428 N.E.2d 153; Smith v. Etling (1954), 96 Ohio App.417, 54 O.O.406, 122, N.E.2d 18, Id at Pg. 83."

From the foregoing, it is clear that a land owner of residential premises in a landlord-tenant relationship as defined in R.C. 5321 may not summarily lock his or her tenant out, but must first bring an action in forcible entry and detainer and follow its concomitant procedures. However, in the case sub judice, the Defendant-Appellees did not enter into a landlord-tenant relationship with Appellant Lee as there was no lease entered between them, and no rent was paid by her to any of them in order to live in the accommodation provided for her employment. Given the absence of a tenancy, the Defendant-Appellees herein were not relegated to the exclusive remedy of an FED action under R. C. 1923.01 et seq.

The case of Reynolds v. Clark (October 10, 2002, unpublished Cuyahoga No. 80210, 2002-Ohio-5464) cited by Appellant is not determinative of the issue present in the within appeal. In Reynolds, a decent's live-in nurse brought a declaratory judgment claim against the executrix of decedent's estate regarding the decedent's alleged promise of a lifetime leasehold interest in decedent's apartment as payment for nursing and housekeeping services. In a second appeal dealing with the matter, this Court reviewed a challenge by the live-in nurse to the subject matter jurisdiction of the Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court. In an appeal with a complicated procedural history, this court rejected appellant's contention that the housing division of the Cleveland Municipal Court had exclusive subject matter jurisdiction finding that the action could not be construed as an ejectment claim under 5303, and further finding that the action was one for quiet title for which the trial court had jurisdiction. The case is distinguishable on the facts and not germane to the issues presented in the instant appeal.

The unpublished case of Metcalf v. County of Sutter, 24 F.3d 247, 1994 WL 16188 (C.A. 9 Cal), cited by Appellant in her Brief is also distinguishable on its facts and is not applicable to the issues at bar. However, it does illustrate the nightmare situation and danger presented to the health and welfare of an elderly person when a terminated health care worker will not leave the premises after employment is terminated. In Metcalf, the plaintiffs brought a 42 U.S.C. Section 1983 action against Sutter County, California Deputy Sheriffs and Mr. Gordon who had hired Ms. Bonnie Metcalf as a live-in caretaker for his mother. Gordon had filed an eviction action and while the case was pending, called the deputies who, on the advice of a County District Attorney, removed Ms. Metcalf and her son prior to any order of eviction being issued. In affirming the trial court's granting of summary judgment in favor of defendant-appellees, the Ninth District Court in Metcalf found that even if California's unlawful detainer procedures enured to the benefit of the terminated ex-employee, Ms. Metcalf and her son, their complaint filed in federal court did not state a cause of action for Section 1983 or Fourth Amendment violations.

In Metcalf, the court was dealing with the statues setting forth California's unlawful detainer procedures, not Ohio's FED statute. Moreover, in Metcalf, Mr. Gordon had elected a remedy, an unlawful detainer action, and had filed an eviction action, but when the police arrived at his mother's house, Gordon told the deputy sheriffs that he had fired Metcalf as his mother's caretaker, that an unlawful detainer action was pending and that he wanted Metcalf out of the house because the house was filthy. Metcalf had locked him out of the house so that he could not care for his mother and Metcalf was "trashing" the house after he had fired her. The case at bar presents a distinct issue as to whether, under Ohio law, an individual in the predicament of Mr. Gordon would be able to remove a fired home health care worker from the premises prior to filing an FED action. It is clear from an examination of the foregoing cases, that the answer is yes.

The legislature has expressly mandated FED procedures to be the exclusive remedy only in those cases where an individual working in a residential premises has entered into a separate rental agreement or lease with the employer and rent is paid to the employer pursuant to that rental agreement. The legislature, in its wisdom, has determined not to enact specific provisions mandating FED as the exclusive remedy in situations where, due to a soured relationship, employment has been terminated. Absent a rental agreement and payment of rent, when the employment of an occupant, such as a live-in nurse, care giver, nanny, au pair, housekeeper, residential camp worker, clergy, religious worker, boarding school worker, nursing home worker, park or grounds keeper, ends, the former employee has the right, under Ohio law, without a breach of peace, to take steps to remove the occupant without filing an FED action, or may elect to file an FED action.

Under Ohio law, as a matter of law, Appellee Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased, had no involvement in removing former employee, Appellant Lee, from his premises. Under Ohio law, Appellees herein were not limited to Ohio's forcible entry and detainer procedures as the exclusive remedy by which to remove Appellant. As Appellant was an occupant rather than a tenant, Appellees did nothing inappropriate or wrongful under Ohio law in removing her from the Braemar Road premises. Understanding the disruption posed to families and businesses when a former employee, not a tenant, is not removed quickly from premises which were occupied as an accommodation to employment only, as a matter of common sense and public policy, the Ohio legislature has determined that FED need not be the sole remedy of employers to remove former employees who worked in their homes or businesses, absent a separate rental agreement and accompanying payment of rent pursuant to the rental agreement.

CONCLUSION

Defendant-Appellee, Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased, respectfully requests this Honorable Court overrule Appellant's sole assignment of error and affirm the judgment of the rial court.

Respectfully submitted,

RAWLIN GRAVENS CO., L.P.A.

/s/ [Signature]

RONALD V. RAWLIN, ESQ. (#0006687)

Attorney for Defendant-Appellee, Estate

of John F. Wallace, Deceased

55 Public Square, Suite 850

Cleveland, Ohio 44113

Phone: (216) 579-1602

Fax: (216) 579-9463

rrawlin@rawlingravens.com

PROOF OF SERVICE

A true and accurate copy of the foregoing Brief of Defendant-Appellant Estate of John F. Wallace, Deceased was served this 1st day of July, 2009, upon the following via regular United States mail, postage prepaid:

THOMAS I. PEROTTI, ESQ.

100 Center Street, #170

Chardon, Ohio 44024

Attorney for Plaintiff-Appellant

FORREST A. NORMAN, ESQ.

Gallagher Sharp Fulton & Norman

7th Floor Bulkley Building

1501 Euclid Avenue

Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Attorney for Defendants-Appellees,

Sally Wallace and Robert L. Burke

ROBERT J. KOETH, ESQ.

Koeth, Rice & Leo

1280 West Third Street

Cleveland, Ohio 44113

Attorney for Defendant-Appellee,

Nancy Wallace

MARK D. AMADDIO, ESQ.

55 Public Square, Suite 850

Cleveland, Ohio 44113

Private Attorney for Defendant-Appellee,

Nancy Wallace on Intervening Complaint

DAVID L. LESTER, ESQ.

Ulmer & Berne

Skylight Office Tower

1660 West 2nd Street, Suite 1100

Cleveland, Ohio 44113-1448

Attorney for Defendant-Appellee,

State Farm Insurance Company on

Intervening Complaint

/s/ [Signature]

RONALD V. RAWLIN, ESQ.

Attorney for Defendant-Appellee, Estate of

John F. Wallace, Deceased

[SEE DECISION AND JUDGMENT ENTRY IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE DECISION AND JUDGMENT ENTRY IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE DECISION AND JOURNAL ENTRY IN ORIGINAL]
