STATEMENT OF THE ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR PRESENTED FOR REVIEW

I.  THE TRIAL COURT, IN ITS MARCH 17, 2008 JOURNAL ENTRY, CORRECTLY GRANTED SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF DEFENDANT-APPELLEE TRAVELERS INDEMNITY COMPANY AND DENIED PLAINTIFFS-APPELLANTS' MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, AS NO GENUINE ISSUE OF MATERIAL FACT EXISTED AND TRAVELERS WAS ENTITLED TO JUDGMENT IN ITS FAVOR AS A MATTER OF LAW.

II.  THE TRIAL COURT, IN ITS MAY 15, 2008 JOURNAL ENTRY, CORRECTLY DENIED APPELLANTS' MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM JUDGMENT PURSUANT TO R. 60(B) BECAUSE APPELLANTS' MOTION MERELY SOUGHT RECONSIDERATION OF THE TRIAL COURT'S DECISION TO GRANT TRAVELERS' MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT.

STATEMENT OF THE ISSUES PRESENTED FOR REVIEW

I.  Whether Appellee's insured, Prime TV LLC ("Prime"), effectively released Appellee from any liability pursuant to the insurance policy Appellee issued (the "Policy") with respect to claims of the type that form the basis of the judgment that Appellants later obtained against Prime (the "Judgment")? (Assignment Of Error I)

II.  Whether Appellants, as judgment creditors, are "standing in the shoes" of Prime, with no greater rights than Prime, and subject to any defenses that Appellee would have against a claim by Prime? (Assignment Of Error I)

III.  Whether Appellants are third-party beneficiaries under the Policy? (Assignment Of Error I)

IV.  Whether C. § 3929.05 applies to cases that involve neither the cancellation of an insurance policy nor claims for "bodily injury" caused by an "accident," notwithstanding its clear terms? (Assignment Of Error I)

V.  Whether the terms of the Policy barred Prime from releasing Appellee? (Assignment Of Error I)

VI.  Whether Prime's sending of unsolicited facsimile advertisements to Appellants constitutes the "advertising injury" offense of "oral or written publication of material that violates a persons right of privacy" under the Policy? (Assignment Of Error I)

VII.  Whether the exclusion in the Policy for injury "arising out of the willful violation of a penal statute" bars coverage for the Judgment because it was premised on a finding that Prime "knowingly and willfully" sent Appellants unsolicited facsimile advertisements in violation of 47 U.S.C. § 227, which is a crime pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § § 501, 503(b)? (Assignment Of Error I)

VIII.  Whether Ohio public policy precludes insurance coverage for intentionally caused injuries such as those that form the basis of the Judgment? (Assignment Of Error I)

IX.  Whether Appellee is entitled to conduct discovery regarding facts relevant to whether the Judgment was the result of fraud or collusion and the applicability of the exclusion in the Policy for injury "arising out of oral or written publication of material whose first publication took place before the beginning of the policy period"? (Assignment Of Error I)

X.  Whether it is an abuse of discretion for a trial court to deny a motion brought pursuant to Civ.R. 60(B) when the motion seeks only reconsideration of the merits of a final judgment issued by the trial court? (Assignment Of Error II)

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

The trial court held that Appellant-Defendant Travelers Indemnity Company ("Travelers") was entitled to summary judgment because it received a full release in connection with Appellants' claims. In a separate suit, Appellants obtained a judgment against Travelers' insured, Prime TV, LLC ("Prime"), based on a finding that Prime "knowingly and willfully" sent Appellants unsolicited fax advertisements in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. § 227 (the "TCPA"). In this case, Appellants claim Travelers must pay that judgment on behalf of Prime pursuant to an insurance policy Travelers issued to Prime. Travelers raised various defenses, including that it has no duty to pay the judgment on behalf of Prime because, long before Appellants obtained the judgment, Prime released Travelers from any liability under the policy with respect to claims of the type Appellants asserted against Prime.

The trial court instructed the parties to file motions for summary judgment regarding the release issue only. Travelers did so, but Appellants filed a motion regarding all issues in the case. In response, Travelers asserted several of its defenses, including that it had no duty to pay the judgment because: (1) Prime released Travelers; (2) the policy affords no coverage for the damages awarded in the judgment; and (3) public policy bars coverage for damages awarded against an insured that intentionally caused injury. Alternatively, Travelers requested time pursuant to Civ.R. 56(F) to conduct the discovery needed to brief its other defenses.

The trial court granted Travelers' motion and denied Appellants' motion, holding that Travelers has no duty to pay the judgment on behalf of Prime because Prime released Travelers. The trial court reasoned that the only rights that Appellants, as judgment creditors, possess against Travelers are those possessed by Prime at the time Appellants obtained the judgment and concluded that, because Prime had no rights against Travelers, Appellants have no rights against Travelers. Therefore, the court did not address Travelers' other defenses. The court later denied Appellants' Civ.R. 60(B) motion, which asked the court to "reconsider and reverse" its holding.

Appellants appealed the trial court's order denying their motion and granting Travelers' motion and the order denying their Civ.R. 60(B) motion. The orders should be affirmed because they are correct in all respects and because, even absent the release Travelers received from Prime, Travelers was entitled to summary judgment based on its other defenses.

STATEMENT OF FACTS

A.  The TCPA

The TCPA bans unsolicited facsimile advertisements ("fax ads"), creates a private right of action in the recipient of such fax ads, and provides for statutory damages of $ 500 per unsolicited fax ad. 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(1)(C), (b)(3). 1 In addition, the TCPA permits a plaintiff to recover treble damages of $ 1,500 per fax if the defendant willfully violated the TCPA. 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(3). A willful violation of the TCPA is a crime punishable by a fine of up to $ 10,000 and/or up to one year in prison for a first offense and up to two years in prison for a second offense. 47 U.S.C. § 501. One who willfully violates the TCPA is also liable for a "forfeiture penalty" of up to $ 10,000 per violation. 47 U.S.C. § 503(b).

B.  Appellants' Complaint Demands That Travelers Pay A Judgment Based On Prime's Willful Violation Of The TCPA

Appellants' Complaint alleges that, in 2006, they obtained a judgment (the "Judgment") against Prime in a lawsuit styled McPhillips, et al. v. Prime TV, LLC, Case No. 05-CV-553459, Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, based on a finding that it was "undisputed that [Prime] knowingly and willfully violated [the TCPA] by transmitting, to the [Appellants], the unsolicited fa[xes] at issue in this case." (Aff. of Frederick P. Marczyk, Esq. in Opposition to Plaintiffs' Motion for Summary Judgment, hereinafter "Opp. Aff.," P2). The Judgment awards Appellants a total of $ 87,000, of which $ 58,000 is treble damages awarded because Prime "knowingly and willfully" violated the TCPA. (Opp. Aff., P3). Neither the Judgment nor Appellants' Complaint indicate whether Prime opposed Appellants' motion for summary judgment in the underlying action or whether Appellants and Prime entered into some sort of agreement that resulted in the Judgment. (Id., P4). Appellants' Complaint requests a declaratory judgment that Travelers "is liable under its insurance contract with Prime [Policy No. I-680-371D839-4-IND-00] . . . for payment of the [Judgment]." (Id., at P5).

C.  The Travelers Policy

Travelers issued to Prime Policy No. I-680-371D839-4-IND-00, with an effective period of September 25, 2000 to September 25, 2001 (the "Policy"). (Id., P6). The Policy provides: "We will pay those sums that the insured becomes legally obligated to pay as damages because of . . . 'advertising injury' to which this insurance applies" and that "[t]his insurance applies to: . . . '[advertising injury' caused by an offense committed in the course of advertising. . . ." (Id., P7). The Policy also provides: "This insurance does not apply to: . . . 'advertising injury': . . . (2) Arising out of oral or written publication of material whose first publication took place before the beginning of the policy period; [or] (3) Arising out of the willful violation of a penal statute or ordinance committed by or with the consent of the insured[.]" (Id., P8). The Policy defines "adverting injury" to mean injury arising out of one or more of the following offenses: "a. oral or written publication of material that slanders or libels a person . . .; b. oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy; c. Misappropriation of advertising ideas . . .; or d. infringement of copyright, title or slogan." (Id., P9).

D.  Prime Released Travelers From Any Liability Pursuant To The Policy With Respect To TCPA Claims Against Prime

Effective as of April 14, 2005, 2 Travelers and Prime entered into a Confidential Settlement Agreement And Mutual Release (the "Agreement") that fully and finally resolved a dispute between them regarding what coverage, if any, the Policy afforded for claims based on Prime's alleged sending of unsolicited fax ads. (Opp. Aff., P10). Pursuant to the Agreement, Prime released Travelers from any liability pursuant to the Policy in connection with such claims in exchange for a payment by Travelers toward the settlement of a class action against Prime based on TCPA claims. (Id., P11, Ex. C). The Agreement provides:

Prime releases . . . Travelers from all past, present and future actions, claims, . . . . or liabilities of any kind or nature, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, matured or unmatured, under the Travelers Policies . . . which in any manner or fashion arise from or relate to: (i) the Class Settlement . . .; (ii) the Coverage Action . . .; and (iii) . . . any and all past, present or future claims of any of the Potential Claimants.

(Id., P12). The Agreement defines: (1) "Class Settlement" to mean the settlement between Prime and the class of plaintiffs asserting TCPA claims against Prime; (2) "Coverage Action" to mean the litigation between Prime and Travelers regarding whether the Policy applied to TCPA claims; (3) "Potential Claimants" to mean "any and all individuals nationwide who ever received an allegedly unsolicited facsimile from Prime"; and (4) "Travelers Policies" to include the Policy. (Id., Ex. C, pgs. TR-0213 to TR-0216). Significantly, the Agreement not only ended pending coverage litigation between Travelers and Prime, it also facilitated the settlement by Prime of various lawsuits pending against it throughout the country, including a class action that Appellants chose to opt-out of after learning of the class settlement. (Opp. Aff., Ex. C). 3

E.  Travelers Has Not Had The Opportunity To Conduct Discovery

On October 24, 2007, the parties participated in an initial status conference, during which counsel for Travelers explained that it needed time to conduct discovery regarding facts relevant to two of its defenses and that, after discovery, Travelers would file a comprehensive motion for summary judgment on all of its defenses. (Id., PP14-15). The parties agreed, however, that Travelers' defense based on Prime's release of Travelers was potentially dispositive and that little discovery was needed for the parties to fully brief that issue. (Id., 116). The parties were thus instructed to file summary judgment motions by January 21, 2008 regarding only the release issue. (Id., P17). Travelers requested and received assurances that, in the event its motion was not granted, it would be allowed to file another summary judgment motion regarding its other defenses after having the opportunity to conduct necessary discovery. (Id., P18). The trial court entered an order providing that (1) the parties had until December 31 to conduct limited discovery regarding the release issue; (2) dispositive motions were due by January 21, 2008; and (3) further discovery would be scheduled, if needed, during a conference on March 13. (Id., P19).

F.  Procedural History And Posture Of Case On Appeal

Per the trial court's instruction, Travelers filed a motion for summary judgment regarding the release issue only. (Id., P20). Appellants, however, filed a motion for summary judgment regarding all issues in the case, requesting "an order granting Summary Judgment in their favor on [Appellants'] claim . . . that [Travelers] is legally obligated pursuant to its contract with its insured [Prime] for payment of [the Judgment]." (Plaintiffs' Motion For Summary Judgment On Issue Of Indemnification, at 1). Travelers argued in its brief in opposition to Appellants' motion that the trial court should deny the motion on the merits because: (1) Appellants are standing in the shoes of Prime and Prime released Travelers; (2) the Judgment did not implicate the Policy's "advertising injury" coverage; (3) coverage is barred by the exclusion for "advertising injury" arising out of the "willful violation of a penal statute"; and (4) public policy bars coverage for damages resulting from intentionally caused injuries. (Defendant Travelers Indemnity Company's Brief In Opposition To Plaintiffs' Motion For Summary Judgment, at 8-28). Alternatively, Travelers asked the court to deny Appellants' motion pursuant to Civ.R. 56(F) to allow Travelers to conduct discovery regarding defenses that could not be fully briefed absent discovery, namely (1) that coverage for the Judgment was barred by the exclusion for injury arising out of the "publication of material whose first publication took place before the beginning of the policy period" and (2) that Appellants cannot sustain their burden of proving that the Judgment is not the result of fraud or collusion between Appellants and Prime. (Id. at 28-29). 4

On March 17, 2008, the trial court granted Travelers' motion and denied Appellants' motion. (March 17, 2008 Journal Entry, at 1-2). The court held that Travelers has no duty to pay the Judgment on behalf of Prime because Prime had released Travelers long before Appellants obtained the Judgment. (Id., at 1). The court explained that, because Prime had no rights against Travelers, Appellants as judgment creditors had no rights against Travelers. (Id.). The trial court also rejected Appellants' reliance on cases that applied R.C. § 3929.05, explaining:

R.C. SECTION 3929.05 APPLIES ONY TO THE CANCELLATION OF INSURANCE POLICIES FOR "LOSS OR DAMAGE ON ACCOUNT OF THE BODILY INJURY OR DEATH BY ACCIDENT OF ANY PERSON." . . . WE ARE DEALING WITH THE RECEIPT OF INTENTIONALLLY SENT, UNSOLICITED FAXES-NOT BODILY INJURY OR DEATH BY ACCIDENT. FURTHERMORE, THE RELEASE DOES NOT CANCEL OR ANNUL THE POLICY . . . .

(Id.) Having decided that the release in the Agreement barred Appellants' claims against Travelers, the trial court did not address any of the other defenses raised by Travelers. (Id.) 5

On April 11, Appellants filed a notice of appeal, which appealed from both the trial court's grant of summary judgment in favor of Travelers and its denial of Appellants' motion for summary judgment. (Plaintiffs' Notice of Appeal from March 17 Journal Entry). On March 21, Appellants filed with the trial court a motion for relief from judgment pursuant to Civ. Rule 60(B)(1) and (5), which asked the trial court to "reconsider and reverse" its decision. (Plaintiffs' Motion For Relief From Judgment, at 4). On May 15, the trial court issued an order denying Appellants' motion for relief from judgment pursuant to Civ.R. 60(B). (May 15, 2008 Journal Entry). On June 3, Appellants filed a notice of appeal from the trial court's May 15 order denying their Civ.R. 60(B) motion. (Plaintiffs' Notice Of Appeal from May 15 Journal Entry).

SUMMARY OF THE ARGUMENT

Appellants ask this Court to ignore established Ohio law that limits the rights of judgment creditors to those possessed by the party against whom they obtained a judgment and hold instead that Appellants' rights far exceed those of Prime. No basis exists for such a radical departure from clear Ohio law.

The trial court correctly held that Travelers was entitled to judgment as a matter of law that it has no obligation to pay the Judgment because Prime released Travelers from any liability under the Policy with respect to claims such as those Appellants asserted against Prime. Under settled Ohio law, Appellants, as judgment creditors "standing in the shoes" of Prime, can assert only those rights possessed by Prime and any defenses that Travelers would have to a claim by Prime are valid against Appellants' claims. Because Prime long ago settled with and released Travelers, Prime has no rights against Travelers. Thus, Appellants have no rights against Travelers. Moreover, Ohio law is clear that injured persons have no vested rights in an insurance policy unless and until they obtain a judgment against the insured. At the time Prime released Travelers, Appellants had no vested rights in the Policy because Appellants did not obtain the Judgment until long after Prime and Travelers reached their settlement. Therefore, Appellants have no basis to complain about the settlement between Prime and Travelers.

Even absent the release, Travelers was entitled to summary judgment because: (1) the Judgment did not award damages for injury caused by the "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy," as is required to implicate the Policy's "advertising injury" coverage; (2) coverage is barred by the exclusion for "advertising injury" arising out of the "willful violation of a penal statute"; and (3) public policy bars coverage for damages resulting from intentionally caused injuries. The trial court's decision should be affirmed.

LEGAL ARGUMENT

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR I: THE TRIAL COURT CORRECTLY GRANTED SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF TRAVELERS AND DENIED APPELLANTS' MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, AS NO GENUINE ISSUE OF MATERIAL FACT EXISTED AND TRAVELERS WAS ENTITLED TO JUDGMENT IN ITS FAVOR AS A MATTER OF LAW.

A.  Applicable Standards

1.  Standard of Review

"An appellate court reviews a grant or denial of summary judgment pursuant to Civ.R. 56(C) de novo." Iams v. DaimlerChrysler (2007), 174 Ohio App.3d 537, 541, 883 N.E.2d 466. "The decision whether to grant or deny a motion for relief from judgment pursuant to Civ.R. 60(B) . . . will not be reversed absent an abuse of discretion." Wohlabaugh v. Salem Communs. Corp. (Mar. 17, 2005), 2005 Ohio App. LEXIS 1174, at **5.

2.  Summary Judgment Standard.

A summary judgment motion must be granted if the movant establishes that (1) there is no genuine issue of material fact; (2) the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law; and (3) reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion, and that conclusion is adverse to the party against whom the motion is made, who is entitled to have the evidence construed most strongly in his favor. Harless v. Willis Day Warehousing Co. (1978), 54 Ohio St.2d 64, 67, 375 N.E.2d 46; Civ.R. 56(C). The moving party bears the initial burden of informing the trial court of the basis for the motion and identifying parts of the record that demonstrate the absence of any genuine issue of material fact. See Dresher v. Burt (1996), 75 Ohio St.3d 280, 293, 662 N.E.2d 264. Once the moving party's burden is satisfied, the burden shifts to the non-moving party, who may not rest on allegations, but must submit evidence demonstrating a genuine dispute over a material fact. Id.; Henkle v. Henkle (1991), 75 Ohio App.3d 732, 735, 600 N.E.2d 791.

3.  Civ.R. 60(B) Motion Standard

Civ.R. 60(B) allows a court to relieve a party from a judgment based on: "(1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect; . . . or (5) any other reason justifying relief." A party cannot obtain relief under Civ.R. 60(B) by claiming that the court made a mistake of law or fact. See Morley v. Morley (Sept. 30, 2004), 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 4814, at **6; Smith v. Bd. of Health (June 28, 1993), 1993 Ohio App. LEXIS 3467, at *12. A "movant must allege new grounds for Civ.R. 60(B) relief; it may not use the arguments it lost under the judgment to justify relief . . . ." Elyria Twp. Bd. of Trs. v. Kerstetter (1993), 91 Ohio App.3d 599, 602, 632 N.E.2d 1376. Courts must deny motions that merely seek reconsideration of the merits of judgments. State v. Kelly (Nov. 16, 2007), 2007 Ohio App. LEXIS 5472, **10; Wohlabaugh, supra, at **8.

4.  Ohio Rules Of Contract Interpretation

Insurance polices must be interpreted according to the same rules that are applicable to other contracts. Fairview Hosp. v. Fortune (2001), 141 Ohio App.3d 314, 317, 750 N.E.2d 1203. Courts "must give effect to the intent of the parties. " Carter v. Adams (2007), 173 Ohio App.3d 195, 198, 877 N.E.2d 1015. "A court must examine the contract as a whole and look to the plain and ordinary meaning of the language in the policy." Id. Words and provisions in a policy must be construed in the context in which they appear. Gomolka v. State Auto. Mut. Ins. Co. (1982), 70 Ohio St.2d 166, 173, 436 N.E.2d 1347 ("intention . . . must be derived . . . from the instrument as a whole, and not from detached or isolated parts thereof."); Bilow v. Wayne Mut. Ins. Co. (Feb. 21, 2006), 2006 Ohio App. LEXIS 663, at **6 ("court must read words and phrases in context"); Carver v. Penn Warranty Corp. (May 17, 1996), 1996 Ohio App. LEXIS 2002, at *6 ("provision in a contract must be interpreted in the context of the entire agreement"). Further, "a court must endeavor to give meaning to every paragraph, clause, phrase and word, omitting nothing as meaningless, or surplusage." Heifner v. Swaney (Aug. 17, 1992), 1992 Ohio App. LEXIS 4177, at *6. See also Arnett v. Midwestern Ent., Inc. (1994), 95 Ohio App.3d 429, 434, 642 N.E.2d 683 ("court must give effect to all the words"). Also, a court construing a policy "must . . . apply the rules of grammar." Bilow, 2006 Ohio App. LEXIS 663, at **6. Thus, Ohio courts apply the "last antecedent" rule, pursuant to which "referential and qualifying words and phrases, where no contrary intention appears, refer solely to the last antecedent." Id. See also Hedges v. Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. (2006), 109 Ohio St.3d 70, 75, 846 N.E.2d 16.

When a policy "is clear and unambiguous, its interpretation is governed solely by the terms appearing in it, and a court cannot alter its provisions." Bowling v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2002), 149 Ohio App.3d 290, 293, 776 N.E.2d 1175. While ambiguities "must be . . . resolved in favor of the insured," a policy is ambiguous only "if its terms are subject to more than one reasonable interpretation." Id. (emphasis added). See also Morfoot v. Stake (1963), 174 Ohio St. 506, 508, 190 N.E.2d 573 (rule resolving ambiguities in favor of insured "will not be applied so as to provide an unreasonable interpretation of the words of the policy."). 6

5.  The Duty To Indemnify

While an insurer's duty to defend is based on allegations in the complaint against the insured and exists even if those allegations are only potentially covered by the policy, the duty to indemnify (i.e., to pay damages) is much narrower. Ohio Gov't Risk Mgmt. Plan v. Harrison (2007), 115 Ohio St.3d 241, 246, 874 N.E.2d 1155. The duty to indemnify is determined by the actual basis of the insured's liability and cannot exist unless there is in fact a covered loss. Twin Maples Vet. Hosp. v. Cincinnati Ins. Co. (2005), 159 Ohio App.3d 590, 594, 824 N.E.2d 1027.

B.  Travelers Is Entitled To Judgment As A Matter Of Law That It Has No Obligation To Pay The Judgment On Behalf Of Prime Because Prime Released Travelers

The trial court correctly held that Travelers has no duty to pay the Judgment on behalf of Prime because Prime long ago released Travelers. When Appellants obtained the Judgment, the only rights they obtained against Travelers were those possessed by Prime. Prime possessed no rights against Travelers because Prime had released Travelers. Thus, Appellants, as judgment creditors "standing in the shoes" of Prime, have no rights against Travelers.

1.  Prime Released Travelers Long Before Appellants Obtained The Judgment

Effective April 14, 2005, Prime released Travelers from any liability pursuant to the Policy with respect to claims against Prime based on unsolicited fax ads sent by Prime. The Agreement releases Travelers with respect to any claims that "in any manner or fashion arise from or relate to: (i) the Class Settlement . ..; (ii) the Coverage Action .. .; and (iii) . . . any and all past, present or future claims of any of the Potential Claimants." (emphasis added). The Agreement defines "Potential Claimants" to mean "any and all individuals nationwide who ever received an allegedly unsolicited facsimile from Prime." In the trial court, Travelers argued that the terms of the Agreement released Travelers from any liability with respect to TCPA claims such as those that form the basis of the Judgment. Appellants conceded that the terms of the release encompassed their claims because they are "Potential Claimants." (Plaintiffs' Brief In Opp. To Defendant's Mot. For Sum. Judg., at 5) (admitting release encompasses "the claims of the [Appellants] and any other 'Potential Claimants.'"). The trial court apparently agreed and held that the Agreement released Travelers from any liability in connection with the Judgment.

Now, for the first time on appeal, Appellants argue that the terms of the release do not extend to Prime's liability to them. (Appellants' Brief, at 9-10). Because Appellants failed to raise this new argument below, they waived their right to assert it on appeal. See Borgerding v. City of Dayton (Aug. 2, 1995), 1995 Ohio App. LEXIS 3309, at *15 ("A party who fails to raise an argument in the court below waives his or her right to raise it for the first time on appeal.").

In any event, Appellants' new argument lacks merit. Even if, as Appellants now contend, the release applied only to claims that "in any manner or fashion . . . relate to" all three of the listed matters (i.e., the "Class Settlement," the "Coverage Action," and claims by "Potential Claimants"), the release would still apply here. The Judgment is based on Appellants' receipt of unsolicited fax ads from Prime and each of the three listed matters pertain to Prime's sending unsolicited fax ads. The Agreement defines "Class Settlement" to mean the settlement between Prime and a class of TCPA plaintiffs, "Coverage Action" to mean the litigation between Prime and Travelers regarding whether coverage exists for TCPA claims, and "Potential Claimants" to mean anyone who received an unsolicited fax ad from Prime. In this "manner" and "fashion" (among others), the Judgment "relate[s] to" all three of the listed matters. Therefore, the release would encompass the Judgment even under Appellants' new interpretation of the Agreement.

2.  Appellants Are "Standing In The Shoes" Of Prime

Because Appellants are not parties to the Policy, they have no direct rights against Travelers. See Meridian Mut. Ins. v. Buckeye Union Ins. Co. (Aug. 16, 1985), 1985 Ohio App. LEXIS 8587, at *6 ("injured party [i]s not a third party beneficiary . . . and .. . ha[s] no statutory or common law right to recover directly on the insurance contract"). Rather, Appellants are judgment creditors "standing in the shoes" of Prime. They can enforce only those rights Prime has in the Policy and any claim they assert against Travelers is subject to any defense Travelers would have to a claim by Prime, including Travelers' defense based on the release.

R.C. § 3929.06(A)(1) grants injured parties who have obtained a judgment against an insured tortfeasor a statutory right of subrogation. The only rights a judgment creditor has against a tortfeasor's insurer are those that the tortfeasor has against the insurer. See, e.g., Bennett v. Swift & Co. (1959), 170 Ohio St. 168, 171, 163 N.E.2d 362 ("rights of [a judgment creditor] against the insurer cannot rise above those of the insured"); Cascone v. Alpha Transp. Sys. (June 15, 1995), 1995 Ohio App. LEXIS 2504, at *6 (same). Thus, § 3929.06 "creates a subrogation suit, wherein the injured party stands in the shoes of the insured against his insurer." Paroline v. Doling & Assoc. (Nov. 15, 1990), 1990 Ohio App. LEXIS 4952, at *16-*17. See also Eilander v. Federated Mut. Ins. Co. (N.D. Tex. Feb. 5, 2001), 2001 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 1081, at *15 ("action [by] judgment creditors is analogous to an action brought by an insured against his insurer"); Coregis Ins. Co. v. Frank (N.D. Ohio 1997), 993 F.Supp. 1092, 1096 ("the Gills, as a subrogated judgment creditor, stand in the shoes of the insured").

Accordingly, "any defenses which would have been available to the insurer in an action by the insured are equally available to the insurer" in an action by a judgment creditor. Bennett, 170 Ohio St. at 171, 163 N.E. 2d 362. Indeed, both § 3929.06, which allows judgment creditors to file a supplemental petition against an insurer in the same lawsuit in which they obtained the judgment, and § 2721.02, which allows them to seek a declaratory judgment, expressly provide that "the insurer has and may assert as an affirmative defense against the judgment creditor any coverage defenses that the insurer possesses and could assert against the holder of the policy." R.C. § 3929.06(C)(1); R.C. § 2721.02(C). See also Sesko v. Hutchins Caw (Oct. 19, 2006), 2006 Ohio App. LEXIS 5433, at *2 ("judgment creditor 'steps into the shoes' of the judgment debtor, and the insurance company has the right to assert . . . any defenses or rights it has that may be enforced against the insured"); Cascone, 1995 Ohio App. LEXIS 2504, at *6 (insurer "may raise any defense against the injured creditor that it may have raised against the insured").

Thus, in lawsuits filed against insurers by judgment creditors such as Appellants, Ohio courts consistently grant judgment to the insurers where, as here, the insurer would have a valid defense to a claim by the insured in connection with the underlying judgment. See, e.g., Gibbons v. Kelly (1951), 156 Ohio St. 163, 169, 101 N.E.2d 497 (judgment in favor of insurer because policy was cancelled); Appointe v. Seecharan (Mar. 2, 2006), 2006 Ohio App. LEXIS 838, at *15 (judgment in favor of insurer because insured failed to cooperate with insurer); Westfield Cos. v. Gibbs (Aug. 12, 2005), 2005 Ohio App. LEXIS 3814, at *13 (judgment in favor of insurer where underlying judgment was premised on intentional misconduct by the insured not covered by policy); Cascone, 1995 Ohio App. LEXIS 2504, at *6 (affirming judgment in favor of insurer because insured failed to notify insurer of claim and explaining: "since [the insured] is precluded from seeking recovery, the injured creditor is likewise precluded from recovering"). Because Prime's release of Travelers would defeat any claim by Prime against Travelers in connection with the Judgment, that release defeats Appellants' claims against Travelers. 7

3.  Because Appellants Are Not Third-Party Beneficiaries, They Had No Rights Under The Policy Until They Obtained The Judgment Against Prime And At That Time They Succeeded Only To Those Rights Possessed By Prime

No basis exists for Appellants' contention that they are third-party beneficiaries under the Policy. (Appellants Brief, at 10-12). It is well-established that an injured person is not a third-party beneficiary of the policy of the person who injured him and that an injured person has no vested rights under such a policy unless and until he obtains a judgment against the insured. See, e.g., Meridian, 1985 Ohio App. LEXIS 8587, at *6; Lawreszuk v. Nationwide Ins. Co. (1977), 59 Ohio App.2d 111, 114, 392 N.E.2d 1094 (injured party is not a third-party beneficiary and has no vested rights unless and until he obtains a judgment); Alms & Doepke Co. v. Johnson (1954), 98 Ohio App. 78, 87, 128 N.E.2d 250 (same). See also Chitlik v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1973), 34 Ohio App.2d 193, 196, 299 N.E.2d 295 (injured persons are not third-party beneficiaries).

Appellants' reliance on Merz v. Motorists Mut. Ins. Co. (May 14, 2007), 2007 Ohio App. LEXIS 2154, is misplaced. Merz stands for the uncontroversial proposition that a passenger of a car who qualifies as an insured under the driver's insurance policy is an intended third-party beneficiary and, accordingly, has direct rights against the insurer with respect to underinsured motorist benefits. Id., at **20 n.3. Merz is inapposite because Appellants do not (and cannot) contend that they qualify as insureds under the Policy.

Appellants citation to Hartford Accident & Indem. Co. v. Randall (1932), 125 Ohio St. 581, 585, 183 N.E. 433, is similarly misleading. (Appellants' Brief, at 14). While, as Appellants point out, the court did state that "an injured person has a potential interest and a substantial right in the policy from the very moment of his injury," the court in the very same sentence clarified that the injured person has no "vested right until a judgment is secured." Id. at 585. Thus, Randall does not suggest that an injured person who has not obtained a judgment has something more than an unvested, "potential interest" in a policy. See Alms, 98 Ohio App. at 87, 128 N.E.2d 250 ("As we construe [the above-quoted] language [from Randall], it means that until the injured person obtains a judgment against the insured, such person has a mere possibility of a right against the insurer. It does not vest until he has obtained a judgment."). While the Randall court held that an injured person's potential interest in a policy warranted permitting him to notify the insurer of the accident, the court made clear that an injured person has no vested right in the policy unless and until he obtains a judgment against the insured. Randall, 125 Ohio St. at 585. Appellants did not obtain the Judgment until well after Prime released Travelers. Thus, at the time Prime released Travelers, Appellants had no vested rights in the Policy. They therefore have no basis to complain about the terms to which Prime and Travelers agreed. 8

Significantly, the Agreement not only ended pending coverage litigation between Travelers and Prime, it also allowed Prime to settle various lawsuits pending against it. Ohio public policy clearly strongly favors settlements such as the Agreement. The Supreme Court explained in Spercel v. Sterling Industries, Inc. (1972), 31 Ohio St.2d 36, 38, 285 N.E.2d 324:

As noted in 15 American Jurisprudence 2d 938, Compromise and Settlement, Section 4: "The law favors the resolution of controversies and uncertainties through compromise and settlement rather than through litigation. * * * The resolution of controversies * * * by means of compromise and settlement * * * results in a saving of time for the parties, the lawyers, and the courts, and it is thus advantageous to judicial administration, and, in turn, to government as a whole." To this we might add that courts today could not successfully cope with the volume of their dockets in the absence of settlement agreements.

See also Elliott Co. v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. (N.D. Ohio 2006), 434 F.Supp.2d 483, 500 (courts should avoid a result that "discourages reasonable settlement between the insured and the primary insurer"). If this Court voided the Agreement as Appellants propose, it would discourage similar settlements in the future and force parties such as Prime and Travelers to engage in unnecessary litigation of disputes that could otherwise be resolved through settlement.

4.  Cases Involving The Cancellation Of Auto Insurance Policies In The Context Of Claims For "Bodily Injury" Caused By An "Accident" Are Inapposite

Appellants claim that McGuire v. Mills (1999), 1999 Ohio App. LEXIS 4133, and Loxley v. Pearson (July 9, 2004), 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 3389, somehow establish that the release Travelers received from Prime does not defeat Appellants' claims. Appellants are clearly wrong.

The McGuire and Loxley courts held that R.C. § 3929.05 bars retroactive cancellation of an automobile insurance policy after the insured was in an accident that caused bodily injury. See McGuire, 1999 Ohio App. LEXIS 4133, at *28 ("R.C. 3929.05 prevents us from giving the retroactive cancellation any effect"); Loxley, 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 3389, at *24-*25 (citing R.C. 3929.05 and McGuire and explaining that "the occurrence of an accident when the policy was in effect precluded . . . validly canceling the policy retroactive to a date prior to the accident"). R.C. § 3929.05 is an unambiguous statute that expressly applies only to the cancellation of insurance policies in the context of claims for "loss or damage on account of the bodily injury or death by accident of any person." R.C. § 3929.05 (emphasis added). Because R.C. § 3929.05 gives rise to rights that were not recognized at common law, the statute must be "strictly construed." Gross Galesburg Co. v. Ingalls (1940), 136 Ohio St. 450, 455, 26 N.E.2d 440 (statutes "in derogation of the common law . . . must be strictly construed"); Knutsen Motor Trucking Co. v. Commercial Cas. Ins. Co. (1934 Ohio Mun. Ct.), 1934 WL 1956 (explaining that substantively identical predecessor to § 3929.05, G.C. § 9510-3, must be "construed strictly" because it "created rights which were not available at common law"); 9 Meridian, 1985 Ohio App. LEXIS 8587, at *6 (injured party has no common law rights in insurance policy).

Thus, Ohio courts refuse to apply R.C. § 3929.05 outside the very specific and narrow context it expressly addresses, i.e., the cancellation of a policy with respect to claims of "bodily injury or death" caused by an "accident." See New Amsterdam Cas. Co. v. Nadler (1926), 115 Ohio St. 472, 476, 154 N.E. 736 (explaining that "[a] careful reading of the language employed by the Legislature in the [substantively identical predecessor to R.C. § 3929.05, G.C. § 9510-3] requires the conclusion that the benefits of its provisions are limited to one who suffers bodily injury" and holding that statute does not apply where claims do not involve "bodily injury"); 57 Ohio Jur. 3d Ins. § 405 (explaining that there is only "one exception" to the rule that "cancellation by mutual agreement is generally permissible," which applies to a "contract of . . . insurance against liability on account of bodily injuries or death") (emphasis added).

R.C. § 3929.05, McGuire, and Loxley do not apply here, first, because the Judgment awards damages for Appellants' receipt of unsolicited faxes, not for "bodily injury or death." Moreover, the Judgment does not involve an "accident," as is required to implicate § 3929.05, because the Judgment is expressly premised on the finding that Prime "knowingly and willfully" sent the unsolicited faxes. See, e.g., Thomson v. OHIC Ins. Co. (2002), 150 Ohio App.3d 352, 357, 780 N.E.2d 1082 ("accident" means an "unintended and unexpected happening[]"); ACS Sys., Inc. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2007), 147 Cal.App.4th 137, 155 ("[T]he fax transmissions were not an 'accident.' An 'accident' requires unintentional acts or conduct. [The insured] intended the fax transmissions to occur.").

Further, § 3929.05 and the cases relied upon by Appellants are not implicated here because the Policy was never "cancelled or annulled." Rather, the Agreement sets forth a detailed resolution of a narrow coverage dispute between Travelers and Prime, pursuant to which Prime released Travelers from any potential liability under the Policy for a specific type of claim. The Agreement does not affect Prime's rights under the Policy with respect to any other claims, and certainly does not "cancel or annul" the Policy. Indeed, Appellants admit that "the Agreement did not purport to cancel the entire Policy." (Appellants' Brief, at 13). 10

In addition, Loxley and McGuire involved statutorily required automobile insurance coverage. Those cases are irrelevant here not only because they involve claims for "bodily injury" caused by an "accident," but also because they implicated the public policy underlying the statutes requiring that drivers carry automobile liability insurance for "bodily injury" and governing cancellation of such policies, R.C. § 3937.30, et seq. The Loxley court observed that the purpose of R.C. § 3937.30, et seq. is "to protect the public from the dangers which uninsured motorists pose" and explained that its holding was "consistent with the paternalistic public policy in this state which seeks to prevent insureds, particularly motorists, from suffering lapses in insurance coverage through inadvertence and to safeguard the rights of injured parties against insurers." Loxley, 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 3389, at *13, *21. See also McGuire, 1999 Ohio App. LEXIS 4133, at *24 (discussing public policy concerns pertaining to mandatory automobile liability coverage). By contrast, the public policy underlying § 3937.30, et seq., is obviously not implicated here because this case does not involve automobile insurance intended to protect people injured in car accidents. Rather, this case involves "advertising injury" coverage intended solely to protect the insured against a narrow type of potential commercial liability. Similarly, this case does not involve a situation where a person involved in a car accident needs to be protected against a "lapse[] in insurance coverage through inadvertence." The insured here, Prime, entered into the Agreement that released Travelers. There was no "inadvertence." Thus, the public policies underlying the automobile insurance statutes are not implicated in this case and provide no grounds upon which to ignore the release Travelers received from Prime. 11

5.  The Policy Does Not Preclude Prime From Releasing Travelers

Appellants did not assert in the trial court that any provision of the Policy barred Travelers from enforcing the Agreement. Now, for the first time on appeal, Appellants argue that the Agreement should be deemed void based on a provision in the Policy that provides that the "policy's terms can be amended or waived only by endorsement issued by us as part of this policy" (the "Amendment or Waiver Provision"). (Appellants' Brief, at 16). By failing to raise this new argument in the trial court, Appellants waived their right to raise it on appeal. See, Borgerding, 1995 Ohio App. LEXIS 3309, at *15.

Regardless, Appellants' new argument has no merit. Appellants' assert, without citation, that "[i]t is beyond question that the substantive terms of the [Policy] were 'amended or waived' by the [Agreement]." (Appellants' Brief, at 16). Appellants are wrong. The terms of the Policy were not amended or waived by the Agreement. Rather, the Agreement releases Travelers, for consideration, from any liability it might otherwise have had with respect to a particular type of claim against Prime. Appellants simply ignore the distinction between a waiver and a release. While "[a] release is a contract which requires an offer, acceptance, and a meeting of the minds in order to be valid," Elliott v. Ganley Dodge (Apr. 28, 2005), 2005 Ohio App. LEXIS 1962, at *9, a waiver is "[t]he intentional or voluntary relinquishment of a known right" that "is essentially unilateral, resulting as legal consequence from some act or conduct of party against whom it operates, and no act of party in whose favor it is made is necessary to complete it," Margroff v. Cornwell Quality Tools (1991), 81 Ohio App.3d 174, 179. See also, e.g., Edwards v. Kia Motors of Am. (May 16, 2008), 2008 Ala. LEXIS 88, at *9 n.5, n.6 ("a [w]aiver is generally defined as the intentional relinquishment of a known right," whereas "[a] release is a contract and must be supported by a lawful and valuable consideration; and, if not supported by a lawful consideration, is nudum pactum") (citation and internal quotations omitted; alterations in original); Petro-Ventures, Inc. v. Takessian (9th Cir. 1992), 967 F.2d 1337, 1342 ("[a] waiver is the voluntary or intentional relinquishment of a known right [that] is unilaterally accomplished," while, "[i]n contrast, the release here is the result of negotiations between parties of equal bargaining power: it was not a unilateral relinquishment of rights"). The Agreement contains a release, not a waiver. Indeed, pursuant to the Agreement, Prime released Travelers in exchange for a payment. There was nothing "unilateral" about it.

The Amendment or Waiver Provision merely "prevents unilateral modifications of the policy." Cincinnati Ins. Co. v. River City Constr. Co. (2001), 325 Ill.App.3d 267, 273, overruled on other grounds, Home Ins. Co. v. Cincinnati Ins. Co. (2004), 213 Il.2d 307, 321. The Agreement, which is a contract that was negotiated and executed by both Prime and Travelers, cannot possibly be deemed a unilateral modification of the Policy.

The trial court correctly granted Travelers' motion for summary judgment because Travelers has a defense to any claim by its insured, Prime, in connection with the Judgment. Under well-established Ohio law, Appellants are mere judgment creditors "standing in the shoes" of Prime and they can only assert against Travelers claims that Prime could maintain against Travelers. See, e.g., Bennett, 170 Ohio St. at 171;Sesko, 2006 Ohio App. LEXIS 5433, at *2; Cascone, 1995 Ohio App. LEXIS 2504, at *6; R.C. § 3929.06. Because Prime's release of Travelers would defeat any claim by Prime against Travelers in connection with the Underlying Judgment, that release likewise defeats Appellants' claims against Travelers in this case.

C.  Travelers Was Entitled To A Judgment As A Matter Of Law That It Has No Obligation To Pay The Judgment On Behalf Of Prime Because The Policy Affords No Coverage For The Judgment

This Court can affirm the trial court's decision if it is right for any reason, even if that reason is not the one relied upon by the trial court. See In re Estate of Baker (2007), 2007 Ohio App. LEXIS 5712, at **10; Reynolds v. Budzik (1999), 134 Ohio App.3d 844, 732 N.E.2d 485 n.3. The Court should affirm the trial court's ruling that Travelers has no obligation to pay the Judgment on behalf of Prime because the Policy affords no coverage.

1.  Because The Judgment Does Not Award Damages For "Advertising Injury," Travelers Has No Duty To Pay

The Policy's clear language affords no coverage for the Judgment. The Policy provides coverage for "damages" because of "'advertising injury' caused by an offense committed in the course of advertising." "Advertising injury" is defined as injury arising out of one or more of the following offenses: "(a) oral or written publication of material that slanders or libels a person . . .; (b) oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy; (c) Misappropriation of advertising ideas . . .; or (d) infringement of copyright, title or slogan." Thus, to establish that the damages awarded in the Judgment fall within the "advertising injury" provisions of the Policy, Appellants must show that Prime committed one of the "advertising injury" offenses by sending unsolicited fax ads to Appellants. This Appellants simply cannot do.

Appellants do not claim that Prime committed the "advertising injury" offenses of "oral or written publication of material that slanders or libels a person . . .," "misappropriation of advertising ideas," or "infringement of copyright, title or slogan." While Appellants do not (and cannot) claim that Prime ever published any material that violated anyone's privacy rights, they nevertheless contend that Prime committed the offense of "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy." That contention has no merit.

Courts throughout the country, including in a clear majority of recently decided cases, have held that "advertising injury" offenses pertaining to the dissemination of "material that violates a person's right of privacy" do not apply to claims that an insured sent unsolicited fax ads in violation of the TCPA. Based on the plain language of the "right of privacy" offense and the context of the "advertising injury" provisions in which it is found, these courts persuasively concluded that a covered offense exists only where the content of an ad (i.e., the "material") violates a person's privacy interest in secrecy, and not where an act of advertising somehow intrudes upon a person's interest in seclusion. See Melrose Hotel Co. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (E.D. Pa. 2006), 432 F.Supp.2d 488 (Pennsylvania law), aff'd. sub nom. Subclass 2 of the Master Class of Plaintiffs v. Melrose Hotel Co. (3d Cir. Pa., Sept. 25, 2007), 2007 U.S. App. LEXIS 22711; Resource Bankshares Corp. v. St. Paul Mercury Ins. Co. (4th Cir. 2005), 407 F.3d 631 (Virginia law); American States Ins. Co. v. Capital Assocs. of Jackson County (7th Cir. 2004), 392 F.3d 939 (Illinois law); Ace Mortg. Funding v. Travelers Indem. Co. of Am. (S.D. Ind., Mar. 10, 2008), 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 18696 (Indiana law); St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v. Brother Int'l Corp. (D.N.J., Aug. 31, 2007), 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 64648 (New Jersey law); Penzer v. Transp. Ins. Co. (S.D. Fla., 2007), 509 F.Supp.2d 1278 (Florida law); St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. v. Onvia, Inc. (W.D. Wash., Feb. 16, 2007), 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 11650 (Washington law); Erie Ins. Exch. v. Kevin T Watts, Inc. (S.D. Ind. Dec. 19, 2006), 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 91762 (Indiana law); Advent Home Mortg. Corp. v. Hartford Cas. Ins. Co. (E.D. Pa. Aug. 14, 2006), 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 64631 (Pennsylvania law); ACS Sys., Inc. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2007), 147 Cal. App. 4th 137 (California law); Telecomm. Network Design v. Bretheren Mut. Ins. Co. (Pa. C.P. 2006), 83 Pa. D. & C. 4th 265 (Pennsylvania law).

a. The "Right Of Privacy" Offense Is Implicated Only Where The Content Of An Insured's Ad Violates Secrecy-Based Privacy Rights.

The Seventh Circuit's opinion in American States illustrates the persuasive reasoning employed by the various courts holding that TCPA claims do not involve "advertising injury." 12 Recognizing that there are two types of "privacy" interests, i.e., secrecy and seclusion, Judge Easterbrook analyzed the plain language of the "right of privacy" offense and concluded that it unambiguously confines coverage to situations where the content of an ad violates a person's privacy interest in secrecy, and does not apply where an act of advertising intrudes upon a person's privacy interest in seclusion. First, the court explained that a natural reading of the "right of privacy" offense does not suggest that it covers intrusions upon seclusion because "[t]he language reads like coverage of the tort of 'invasion of privacy,' where an oral or written statement reveals an embarrassing fact or . . . brings public attention to a private figure, or casts someone in a false light through publication of true but misleading facts." Id. at 941.

The American States court further reasoned that the structure of the "right of privacy" offense "strongly implies that coverage is limited to secrecy interests":

[The policy] covers a "publication" that violates a right of privacy. In a secrecy situation, publication matters; otherwise secrecy is maintained. In a seclusion situation, publication is irrelevant. A late-night knock on the door or other interruption can impinge on seclusion without any need for publication. Contacting one customer at a time may not be "publication" at all for purposes of advertising-injury coverage. Perhaps automated faxes to hundreds of recipients could be deemed a form of publication, but this would be irrelevant to the seclusion interest. To put this differently, [the TCPA] condemns a particular means of communicating an advertisement, rather than the content of that advertisement-while advertising-injury coverage deals with informational content.

Id. at 942-3 (citation omitted). See also Resource Bankshares, 407 F.3d at 641 (explaining that the foregoing passage from American States "puts words to the gut instinct one feels when comparing [a TCPA claim with the "right of privacy" offense]: if the [TCPA claim] alleges any violation of privacy, it is 'seclusion' privacy. It is concerned with the manner of the advertisement. In contrast, the advertising-injury offense part of the policies is exclusively concerned with those types of privacy, which, like secrecy, are implicated by content of the advertisements.") (citation omitted).

In Penzer, 509 F.Supp.2d at 1286, the court employed similar reasoning:

Although the tort of "invasion of privacy" in Florida includes "intrusion . . . into one's private quarters," the policy does not cover all invasions of privacy. It covers only "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right to privacy." Read as a whole, and in context, as Florida law requires, this phrase refers to invasions of privacy caused by disclosure of the content of material that is published or disseminated. The terms "publication," "material," and "right of privacy" in [the] advertising injury coverage can each be defined individually and separately, so that when those individual definitions are collectively aggregated, the disputed phrase can mean what the plaintiffs assert. But such a reading cannot survive a proper contextual analysis.

See Bilow, 2006 Ohio App. LEXIS 663, at **6 (court "must read words and phrases in context"); Melrose, 432 F.Supp.2d at 502 ("single word in . . . policy should not be read in a vacuum").

Other courts have likewise concluded that when the words of the "right of privacy" offense are construed in the context of the words surrounding them, it is clear that the offense exists only where the content of an ad violates a person's privacy interest in secrecy. For example, in ACS, the court reached that conclusion by applying the "last antecedent" rule:

The last antecedent rule provides that qualifying words, phrases and clauses are to be applied to the words or phrases immediately preceding and are not to be construed as extending to or including others more remote. . . . Considered grammatically, the word "that" in "[m]aking known to any person or organization written or spoken material that violates an individual's right of privacy" can reasonably be interpreted only to refer to "material." We find that "material" is not only the last antecedent of "that" but is also its only antecedent. "That" does not refer to "making known." Thus this particular advertising offense only refers to "material that violates an individual's right of privacy," and does not refer to a "making known that violates an individual's right of privacy."

147 Cal.App.4th at 150 (citations and internal quotations omitted). 13 See also Bilow, 2006 Ohio App. LEXIS 663, at **6 (observing that Ohio courts follow the "last antecedent" rule).

Similarly, the court in Bretheren explained that ignoring the "last antecedent" rule and construing the language of the "right of privacy" offense in the manner proposed by Appellants would render the words "of material" meaningless surplusage:

Since the modifying clause beginning with the word "violates" was placed at the very end of the sentence, next to the word "material," it is clear that the content of the communication must be the cause of the harm, not the mere "publication" or transmission of it. If one were to read this provision as [the insured] would like, with the clause that begins with "violates" modifying the word "publication," then the words "of material" would be rendered meaningless, which is not a proper result.

83 Pa. D. & C. 4th at 275. See also Heifner, 1992 Ohio App. LEXIS 4177, at *6 (Ohio courts "must endeavor to give meaning to every paragraph, clause, phrase and word, omitting nothing as meaningless, or surplusage"). Thus, the only reasonable construction of the "right of privacy" offense is that the offense exists only where injury stems from the publication's content and not from the mere fact of publication because, in the latter situation, there would be no "material that violates a person's right of privacy." See ACS, 147 Cal. App. 4th at 150.

Reading the "right of privacy" offense in the context of the "advertising injury" coverage as a whole likewise dictates that the offense exists only where the content of an ad violates a person's privacy interest in secrecy because each of the other "advertising injury" offenses is also content-based. See Carver, 1996 Ohio App. LEXIS 2002, at *6 ("provision in a contract must be interpreted in the context of the entire agreement"); Melrose, 432 F.Supp.2d at 502 ("specific provisions in a policy gain meaning based on their context in the policy as a whole"). The Penzer court explained:

[C]lauses within a paragraph of an insurance policy should be read together. Because all of the other "offenses" covered by the "advertising injury" paragraph . . . are content-based (defamation, misappropriation of advertising ideas or style of doing business, infringement of copyright), it makes sense to treat the disputed provision here-"oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right to privacy"-as also being content-based.

509 F.Supp.2d at 1287-88 (citation omitted). See also, e.g., Resource Bankshares, 407 F.3d at 641 ("these four offenses all share the common thread of assuming that the victim of the advertising injury offense is harmed by the sharing of the content of the ad, not the mere receipt of the advertisement."); ACS, 147 Cal.App.4th at 150 (all of the offenses "involve the insured's making known or unauthorized taking or use of content which injures someone"); Melrose, 432 F.Supp.2d at 502 ("All of these offenses address the message conveyed rather than the method of conveyance."); Advent, 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 64631, at *14 ("it is clear that the offenses listed relate to the content of the covered material").

Thus, when the words of the "right of privacy" offense are read naturally in the context of each other and the policy as a whole, it is clear that the offense exists only where the content of material published by the insured violates a person's privacy interest in secrecy. The "right of privacy" offense is unambiguous because, in light of the foregoing, it is unreasonable to construe it to apply to violations of seclusion interests caused by an insured's method of advertising.

b. The Cases Appellants Cited In The Trial Court Are Not Persuasive.

Most of the cases cited by Appellants in the trial court involved completely different language, contain no analysis, reach a conclusion that was subsequently rejected by other courts, and/or were decided prior to American States and its progeny and without the benefit of the cogent reasoning employed in those cases. For example, Universal Underwriters Ins. Co. v. Lou Fusz Auto. Network (8th Cir. 2005), 401 F.3d 876, did not even involve "advertising injury" coverage, let alone the "right of privacy" offense at issue in this case. As the Fourth Circuit explained in Resource Bankshares, the policy in Universal Underwriters used the term "privacy" in a completely different context:

In Universal Underwriters, the policy at issue promised to pay all damages arising from, among other things, "private nuisance (except pollution), [and] invasion of rights of privacy . . ." and did not limit or qualify these terms. An unwanted fax is a paradigmatic private nuisance, and we think the "invasion of rights of privacy" provision's proximity to the private nuisance language, but separation from "advertising injury," surely had to influence the Eighth Circuit's reasoning. Indeed, Universal Underwriters took care to distinguish American States, where, like this case, the privacy provision was embedded in an advertising injury part.

407 F.3d at 642. See also Universal Underwriters, 401 F.3d at 883 (explaining that the substantial "differences . . . as to the insurance policies under examination . . . make the Seventh Circuit's [analysis in American States] inapplicable to the current situation").

Similarly, the Eleventh Circuit in Hooters of Augusta v. Am. Global Ins. Co. (11th Cir. 2006), 157 Fed. Appx. 201, sidestepped entirely the issues raised by American States and Resource Bankshares, because they were not raised by the parties. Id. at 208. For this reason, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida in Penzer concluded that Hooters was "not controlling" in the face of arguments based on American States and Resource Bankshares and, after considering the reasoning employed by the Seventh and Fourth Circuits, rejected Hooters as "not persuasive." Penzer, 509 F.Supp.2d at 1285. By contrast, no district courts in the Fourth Circuit have departed from Resource Bankshares. 14

Other courts, however, have refused to follow the reasoning of American States. See Park Univ. Enter. v. Am. Cas. Co. (10th Cir. 2006), 442 F.3d 1239; Valley Forge Ins. Co. v. Swiderski Elecs. (Ill. 2006), 860 N.E.2d 307. While some disagreement thus exists, the unquestionably better reasoned line of cases-and, most significantly for purposes of the present analysis, that in accord with Ohio rules of construction-is reflected by the Seventh Circuit's decision in American States and the decisions of the clear majority of courts that have addressed the issue since American States. See Lehrner v. Safeco Ins. (2007), 171 Ohio App.3d 570, 585, 872 N.E.2d 295 (mere existence of split in judicial authority does not justify finding of ambiguity).

In sum, as explained in American States and its progeny, the Policy's "advertising injury" offense of "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy" applies only where the content of an ad (i.e., the "material") violates a person's privacy interest in secrecy, and not where an act of advertising somehow intrudes upon a person's privacy interest in seclusion. Because the Judgment does not award damages for violations of Appellants' rights of privacy caused by the content of Prime's ads, the Judgment does not implicate the "advertising injury" coverage of the Policy.

2.  The "Willful Violation Of A Penal Statute" Exclusion Bars Coverage

Even if the Judgment had awarded damages for a covered "right of privacy" offense, the exclusion for "advertising injury" "[a]rising out of the willful violation of a penal statute or ordinance committed by or with the consent of the insured" is applicable. The Judgment is premised on the finding that Prime "knowingly and willfully violated [the TCPA] by transmitting, to the [Appellants], unsolicited fax advertisements." Knowingly and willfully violating the TCPA is a crime punishable by imprisonment, fines and forfeiture penalties pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 501 and § 503. See 47 U.S.C. § 501, § 503(b); David E. Sorkin, Unsolicited Commercial E-Mail and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, 45 Buffalo L. Rev. 1001, 1032 n.60 (1997) ("Willful violations of the TCPA are subject to punishment by fine or imprisonment under 47 U.S.C. § 501."). Because the Judgment is premised on a finding that Prime willfully violated the TCPA, which is a crime pursuant to § 501 and § 503, the "violation of a penal statute" exclusion bars coverage for the Judgment.

State Farm Fire and Cas. Co. v. Condon (2005), 163 Ohio App.3d 584, 839 N.E.2d 464, is instructive. There, an insured photographer used corpses, without permission, as models for his "photographic art" and then published his photographs. The photographer was convicted of gross abuse of a corpse in violation of R.C. § 2927.01, a penal statute that requires proof that a person "treated a human corpse in a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities." 163 Ohio App.3d at 590. Family members of the deceased persons whose remains were used then filed a civil suit against the photographer, alleging that he violated their rights to privacy by publishing the pictures of the corpses. Id. at 587. The photographer claimed that his insurer had a duty to defend and indemnify him, but the Court of Appeals held that the "violation of a penal statute" exclusion barred coverage. The Court reasoned that, because the conviction established that the photographer willfully violated R.C. 2927.01 by taking pictures of the corpses and because the family members' tort claims against the photographer arose from that same conduct, the "violation of a penal statute" exclusion barred coverage. Id. at 590-91.

Similarly, in Westfield Ins. Co. v. Healthohio, Inc. (1992), 73 Ohio App.3d 341, 347, 597 N.E. 179, the Court of Appeals held that the "violation of a penal statute" exclusion barred coverage for a lawsuit that a doctor filed against an insured health maintenance organization ("HMO") after the HMO terminated his contract. The doctor's claims against the HMO were premised on the allegation that the HMO intentionally terminated the contract pursuant to an unlawful conspiracy to prevent competition and restrain trade. The Court of Appeals held that the "violation of a penal statute" exclusion barred coverage because R.C. 1331.01, et. seq., makes it a crime to conspire to restrain trade and the doctor's claims against the HMO were premised on the allegation that the HMO conspired to restrain trade. Id.

State Farm and Westfield compel the conclusion that the "violation of a penal statute" exclusion bars coverage because the Judgment is premised on the finding that Prime willfully violated the TCPA, which is a crime pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 501 and § 503. Indeed, Appellants admitted that § 501 and § 503 "are undeniably penal statutes," that the Judgment is premised on the finding that Prime "knowingly and willfully" violated the TCPA, and that, accordingly, "the government could also impose criminal liability [on Prime] for the same act under [ § 501 and § 503]." (Plaintiffs' Motion For Summary Judgment On Issue Of Indemnification, at 25).

D.  Public Policy Bars Coverage For The Judgment

1.  Travelers Has No Obligation To Pay The Judgment Because Public Policy Bars Insurance Coverage For Intentionally Caused Injuries

Even if the damages awarded in the Judgment somehow fell within the terms of the Policy, Travelers would have no obligation to pay because Ohio public policy bars insurance coverage for damages resulting from intentionally caused injuries. "Liability insurance does not exist to relieve wrongdoers of liability for intentional, antisocial, criminal conduct." Gearing v. Nationwide Ins. Co. (1996), 76 Ohio St.3d 34, 38, 665 N.E.2d 1115. Thus, "if an insured intentionally inflicts an injury, then as a matter of public policy, the contract of insurance would not afford coverage to such an act." Kish v. Cent. Nat'l Ins. Group (1981), 67 Ohio St.2d 41, 45 n.4, 424 N.E.2d 288 (citation and quotations omitted). See also Doe v. Shaffer (2000), 90 Ohio St.3d 388, 391, 738 N.E.2d 1243 ("As early as 1938, . . . it was 'well settled from the standpoint of public policy that the act of intentionally inflicting an injury cannot be covered by insurance . . . .") (citation omitted); Buckeye Union Ins. Co. v. New England Ins. Co. (1999), 87 Ohio St.3d 280, 283, 720 N.E.2d 495 (public policy bars insurance coverage when the insured "does something which brings about the exact result desired"). Without such a rule, "the presence of insurance would encourage those who deliberately harm another." Harasyn v. Normandy Metals (1990), 49 Ohio St.3d 173, 177, 551 N.E.2d 962. See also Doe, 90 Ohio St.3d at 391, 738 N.E.2d 1243 ("such conduct would be encouraged if insurance were available to shift the financial cost of the loss from the wrongdoer to his insurer") (quotations and citation omitted); Gearing, 76 Ohio St.3d at 39, 665 N.E.2d 1115 ("requiring an insurer to indemnify an insured who has engaged in sexual abuse of a child subsidizes the episodes of sexual abuse of which its victims complain, at the ultimate expense of other insureds to whom the added costs of indemnifying child molesters will be passed").

Based on this settled principle of Ohio law, Travelers has no duty to pay the Judgment because it is premised exclusively on intentionally caused injuries. The only injuries at issue in the underlying action were Appellants' receipt of unsolicited fax ads. The Judgment is premised on the fact that Prime willfully sent those ads to Appellants knowing that they were unsolicited. Thus, Prime did something that brought about the exact result desired: It sent unsolicited fax ads to Appellants intending that Appellants' would receive them and that is exactly what happened. Accordingly, Ohio public policy bars coverage. See Buckeye, 87 Ohio St.3d at 283; Doe, 90 Ohio St.3d at 391. See also ACS Sys, Inc. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (Cal. Misc. 2005), Case No. BC 305455 ("the Court also finds merit in defendant's argument that allowing insurance coverage to cover costs of defense and to reimburse any civil or administrative penalties for this conduct [i.e., sending unsolicited fax ads]-which is expressly prohibited by federal law-would be a violation of public policy"), aff'd. on other grounds, (2007), 147 Cal.App.4th 137.

Significantly, if public policy did not bar coverage here, it would encourage companies such as Prime to continue deliberately sending unsolicited fax ads because they would be allowed to shift the financial cost of their willful violation of the TCPA to their insurers while retaining the financial benefit of their unlawful conduct. See Harasyn, 49 Ohio St.3d at 177; Doe, 90 Ohio St.3d at 391. Requiring insurers to indemnify those who intentionally violate the TCPA subsidizes the violations of which individuals such as Appellants complain, at the ultimate expense of other insureds to whom the costs of indemnifying blast-faxers will be passed. Public policy does not permit that result. See Gearing, 76 Ohio St.3d at 39.

2.  Public Policy Bars Coverage For Treble Damages

Public policy does not permit insurance coverage for the treble damages awarded to the Appellants in the Judgment. Ohio public policy bars indemnification for punitive damages. See Ruffin v. Sawchyn (1991), 75 Ohio App.3d 511, 518, 599 N.E.2d 852 ("punitive damages are not insurable"). Where public policy bars indemnification for punitive damages, it likewise bars coverage for treble damages imposed upon an insured for willful misconduct.

In Casey v. Calhoun (1987), 40 Ohio App.3d 83, 84, 531 N.E.2d 1348, the court explained that "[p]unitive damages are awarded to punish an offender for the wanton, reckless, malicious or oppressive character of the act committed and to deter others from committing similar acts" and that "both the legislature and judiciary have determined that insuring against punitives is detrimental to the welfare and the morals of the public." The treble damages available for willful violations of the TCPA are indistinguishable from punitive damages:

The TCPA gives the court discretion to increase damages up to three times for willful or knowing violations of the statute. Treble damages, historically were to guard against unscrupulous business practices and conduct that constitutes willful and knowing violations of existing laws. Treble damages are a form of punitive damages, the purpose of which are to punish the person or entity doing the wrongful act and to discourage that person or entity from similar conduct in the future. See Texas Industries, Inc. v. Radcliff Materials, Inc., 451 U.S. 630, 639, 68 L. Ed. 2d 500, 101 S. Ct. 2061 (1981).

Covington & Burling v. Int'l Mktg. & Research, Inc. (D.C.Super.Ct., Apr. 17, 2003), 2003 D.C. Super. LEXIS 29, at *23-*26. Public policy bars insurance for treble damages awarded under the TCPA because they serve the same purposes as punitive damages. In a similar situation, the court in Rental & Mgmt. Assocs. v. Hartford Ins. Co. (N.Y. Misc. 1992), 588 N.Y.S.2d 982, aff'd. (App.Div. 1994), 614 N.Y.S.2d 513, held that public policy barred coverage for treble damages awarded against landlords for wrongful evictions. The court explained:

Damages . . . are trebled in order to punish and deter . . . . Clearly the Legislature intended to compound the damages in order to discourage resort to wrongful evictions by landlords and to punish severely those who engage in such conduct. . . . The damages are a reflection of ethical indignation and a sort of fine. Allowing insurance coverage would weaken the deterrent and water down the punishment. Further, it would be unjust, perhaps even absurd, to allow a landlord to pass on to its insurance company, to say nothing of other purchasers of insurance, part of the punishment intended for it.

Id. at 982. Therefore, of the $ 87,000 awarded to the Appellants in the Judgment, public policy bars Travelers from paying at least the $ 58,000 that was awarded as treble damages.

E.  Travelers Is Entitled To Conduct Discovery

It is not clear whether Appellants and Prime entered into some sort of agreement that resulted in the Judgment or whether the Judgment was otherwise the result of fraud or collusion. An insurer has no duty to indemnify an insured for a settlement or judgment that results from fraud or collusion between the insured and the underlying plaintiffs. See Stoller v. Fid. & Guar. Ins. Underwriters (Aug. 5, 1988), 1988 Ohio App. LEXIS 3097, at *17. Discovery may reveal facts that will establish that the Judgment is the result of fraud or collusion between Appellants and Prime.

Discovery may likewise reveal that coverage for the Judgment is barred by the Policy's exclusion for injury "arising out of oral or written publication of material whose first publication took place before the beginning of the policy period." Where an insured publishes an ad within a coverage period that is substantially the same as one it published prior to the coverage period, the "first publication" exclusion bars coverage for any injury arising from the ad published during the term of the policy. See, e.g., Hedarina v. Chubb Group of Ins. Cos. (9th Cir., Aug. 26, 1998), 1998 U.S. App. LEXIS 21103, *8; Applied Bolting Tech. Prod. v. U.S. Fid. & Guar. Co. (E.D. Pa. 1996), 942 F.Supp. 1029, 1036, aff'd. (3d Cir. 1997), 118 F.3d 1574. If, prior to the inception of the Policy (i.e., September 25, 2000), Prime faxed ads whose content was similar to ads sent to Appellants, the "first publication" exclusion bars coverage for the Judgment.

Travelers has not had the opportunity to conduct discovery regarding the facts surrounding the Judgment or those relevant to the applicability of the "first publication" exclusion. Travelers requested in the alternative that the trial court deny Appellants' motion for summary judgment "to permit . . . discovery to be had." Civ.R. 56(F). If this Court does not affirm the trial court's decision, it should remand the case so that Travelers has the opportunity to conduct discovery.

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR II: THE TRIAL COURT CORRECTLY DENIED APPELLANTS' MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM JUDGMENT PURSUANT TO CIV.R. 60(B) BECAUSE THAT MOTION MERELY SOUGHT RECONSIDERATION OF THE TRIAL COURT'S FINRAL JUDGMENT.

Appellants' Civ.R. 60(B) motion asked the trial court to "reconsider and reverse" its decision. Appellants offered no new facts or arguments. Instead, they merely made the same arguments that the court had already rejected and claimed the court's decision was wrong. The trial court correctly denied Appellants' motion because it sought only reconsideration of the merits of the trial court's final judgment, and neither Civ.R. 60(B) nor any other rule permits a party to seek reconsideration of the merits of a final judgment. Kelly, 2007 Ohio App. LEXIS 5472, **10; Morley, 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 4814, at **6; Smith, 1993 Ohio App. LEXIS 3467, at *12; Kerstetter, 91 Ohio App.3d at 602; Wohlabaugh, 2005 Ohio App. LEXIS 1174, at **8.

CONCLUSION

Based on the foregoing, this Court should affirm the trial court's orders granting summary judgment in favor of Travelers and denying Appellants' Civ.R. 60(B) motion.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ [Signature]/

William T. Corbett, Jr., Esq. (admitted pro hac vice)

DRINKER BIDDLE & REATH LLP

500 Campus Drive

Florham Park, New Jersey 97932

Frederick P. Marczyk, Esq. (admitted pro hac vice)

DRINKER BIDDLE & REATH LLP

18th & Cherry Streets

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103-6996

Harold (Kip) Reader, Esq. (0021911)

ULMER & BERNE LLP

1660 West 2nd Street, Suite 1100

Cleveland, Ohio 44113-1448

Attorneys for Appellee Travelers Indemnity Company

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I certify that on this date I served a copy of the Brief of Appellee-Defendant Travelers Indemnity Company and the Affidavit of Frederick P. Marczyk, Esq. in Support of Brief of Appellee-Defendant Travelers Indemnity Company upon counsel at the addresses below via U.S. Mail, postage prepaid:

James R. Goodluck, Esq.

3517 St. Albans Road

Cleveland Heights, Ohio 44121

Counsel for Appellants

Paul W. Flowers, Esq.

Paul W. Flowers Co., L.P.A.

Terminal Tower, 35th Floor

50 Public Square

Cleveland, Ohio 44113

Counsel for Appellants

Matthew P. McCue, Esq.

179 Union Ave.

Framingham, MA 01702

Counsel for Amicus Curiae

Dated: August 21, 2008

/s/ [Signature]/

[SEE APPENDIX A IN ORIGINAL]
