STATEMENT OF THE ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR PRESENTED FOR REVIEW

Plaintiff/Appellant Motorists Mutual Insurance Company hereby submits the following Assignments of Error for review, both of which arise out of the Trial Court's Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008 (attached hereto as Exhibit "A"):

I. THE TRIAL COURT COMMITTED REVERSIBLE ERROR BY GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF DEFENDANTS/APPELLEES AND OVERRULING THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF PLAINTIFF/APPELLANT MOTORISTS MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY AS DEFENDANT/APPELLEE DANDY-JIM, INC., IS NOT ENTITLED TO "ADVERTISING INJURY" COVERAGE UNDER POLICY NO. 33.229234-50E FOR THE TCPA CLAIMS IN CASE NO. CV-06-583434 IN THE CUYAHOGA COUNTY COURT OF COMMON PLEAS AS A MATTER OF LAW.

II. THE TRIAL COURT FAILED TO ADDRESS THE ISSUE OF WHETHER IT IS AGAINST THE PUBLIC POLICY OF OHIO TO INSURE AGAINST A STATUTORY A WARD OF TREBLE DAMAGES.

STATEMENT OF ISSUES PRESENTED FOR REVIEW

The following issues are presented for review in this appeal:

1. Whether Defendant/Appellee Dandy-Jim, Inc., is entitled to "advertising injury" coverage under Policy No. 33.229234-50E for those allegations and claims set forth in the Complaint filed in Case No. CV -06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas.

2. Whether the following definition of "advertising injury" is clear and unambiguous: "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy".

3. Whether a violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) constitutes a violation of the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy or the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy.

4. Whether the "advertising injury" coverage in the Motorists policy provides coverage for the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy, but not the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy.

5. Whether the "advertising injury" coverage in the Motorists policy has been triggered when the alleged "material" did not violate the Defendants/Appellees' right to privacy.

6. Whether the "last antecedent rule" is the applicable rule of contract interpretation and/or construction to be applied under Ohio law in interpreting the following definition of "advertising injury": "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy".

7. Whether it is the "material" which must violate a person's right of privacy, as required by the "last antecedent rule", and not the "publication" of such material, in interpretating the relevant definition of "advertising injury" in the Motorists policy.

8. Whether the policy issued by Motorists, when read in its entirety, contains any type of contrary intent which would preclude this Court of Appeals from applying the "last antecedent rule" in interpretating the relevant definition of "advertising injury" in the Motorists policy.

9. Whether "publication" of the "material" to third parties or persons is required for coverage to exist under the "advertising injury" provisions in the Motorists policy.

10. Whether marginal direct contact with a claimant, such as the receipt of a few facsimiles, constitutes an intrusion into seclusion which violates the right of privacy under Ohio law.

11. Whether Defendant/Appellee Dandy-Jim, Inc., acted "in such a manner as to outrage or cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities,", or in a highly offensive manner, sufficient to establish a violation of the Defendants/Appellees' right to privacy under Ohio law.

12. Whether a statutory award of treble damages is similar or identical to punitive damages under Ohio law as both are meant to punish a wrongdoer.

13. Whether it is against the public policy of Ohio to insure against a statutory award of treble damages.

14. Whether the summary judgment granted by the Trial Court in its Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, in favor of Defendants/Appellees Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour was erroneous and contrary to Ohio law.

15. Whether the Trial Court's overruling of the Motion for Summary Judgment of Plaintiff/Appellant Motorists Mutual Insurant Company in its Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, was erroneous and contrary to Ohio law.

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

On June 7, 2007, Plaintiff/Appellant Motorists Mutual Insurance Company (hereinafter "Motorists") filed a Complaint for Declaratory Judgment in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas against Defendants Dandy-Jim, Inc., dba Brookgate Tire & Auto Center (hereinafter "Dandy-Jim, Inc."), Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour. (See Docket). The Complaint was filed by Motorists seeking a declaration that it did not have a legal or contractual obligation under a Commercial General Liability Policy, No. 33.229234-50E, to provide coverage or a defense to the named insured, Dandy-Jim, Inc., for those allegations and claims asserted by Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas (hereinafter the "underlying litigation"). In the underlying litigation, Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour seek to recover statutory damages from Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., for the transmission of certain unsolicited advertisements through the use of telephone facsimile machines in alleged violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (hereinafter "TCPA"), Title 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(1)(C). (See Abrahamsen Affidavit, Exhibit "B").

In this declaratory judgment action, Defendants/Appellees Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour filed a Motion for Summary Judgment on August 22, 2007. (See Docket). Subsequently, Motorists filed a Combined Motion for Summary Judgment and Brief in Opposition on October 4, 2007. (See Docket). Defendants/Appellees Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour then filed a Reply Brief on October 19, 2007. (See Docket). Defendant/Appellee Dandy-Jim, Inc., did not file any motions for summary judgment or any briefs in opposition to the Motions filed by the other parties.

On August 5, 2008, the Trial Court granted the Motion for Summary Judgment in favor of Defendants/Appellees Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour, and overruled the Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Motorists. (See Exhibit "A"). In its Journal Entry, the Trial Court specifically held, in pertinent part, as follows:

The Court having considered briefs, arguments of counsel and the evidence find Plaintiff Motorist Mutual is obligated to defend the insured, Dandy-Jim, against any suit arising out of any violation of the TCPA regarding the transmission of unsolicited fax advertisements. The Court further holds the "advertising injury" provision of the insurance policy as written does not draw a distinction between the violations of the secrecy right of privacy and the seclusion right of privacy. Therefore, coverage extends to any oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy.

(See Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, attached hereto as Exhibit "A"). As Motorists respectfully disagrees with the Trial Court's holding, Motorists filed a Notice of Appeal to the Court of Appeals for Cuyahoga County, Ohio, Eighth Appellate District, on September 2, 2008. (See Docket). Motorists believes that the Trial Court improperly held that Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., is entitled to coverage and a defense under Policy No. 33.229234-50E for the alleged TCPA violations, and respectfully requests this Court of Appeals to overrule the Trial Court's Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, and to either enter final judgment in favor of Motorists or to remand this matter to the Trial Court for further proceedings.

STATEMENT OF FACTS

I. THE UNDERLYING LITIGATION.

On February 3, 2006, Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohamrnadpour filed a Complaint in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, designated as Case No. CV -06-583434, against Dandy-Jim, Inc., dba Brookgate Tire & Auto Center (hereinafter "Dandy-Jim, Inc."), alleging that said Defendant transmitted or caused to be transmitted certain unsolicited advertisements through the use of telephone facsimile machines, that said Defendant did not have the prior express invitation or permission of those persons receiving the facsimiles, that said Defendant acted "willfully", that Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., allegedly violated the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), Title 47 U.S.C. § 227(b)(1)(C), that Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour are entitled to statutory damages under the TCPA, and that Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour are allegedly qualified to serve as class representatives of a purported class consisting of all persons and entities within the 216 and 440 telephone area codes to whom Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., allegedly transmitted unsolicited advertisements during the years 2001 through 2004. A copy of the Second Amended Complaint filed in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas is attached to the Affidavit of Erik E. Abrahamsen, Esq., as Exhibit "B." Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., denies the allegations asserted against it by Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour in Case No. CV -06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas.

According to the docket in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohamrnadpour filed a Notice of Voluntary Dismissal of all class action claims, without prejudice, on July 3, 2007. (See Docket). In addition, the Trial Court in Case No. CV -06-583434 granted the Plaintiffs' Motion to Stay the proceedings indefinitely, and the case has been removed from the Court's active docket and will be reinstated upon the motion of one of the parties. Case No. CV -06-583434 will undoubtedly move forward after the resolution of the coverage issues in this declaratory judgment action.

II. THE POLICY ISSUED BY PLAINTIFF/APPELLANT MOTORISTS MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY TO DEFENDANT/APPELLEE DANDY-JIM, INC., dba BROOKGATE TIRE & AUTO CENTER.

At the time of the activities alleged in the Complaint filed in Case No. CV -06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., was insured under a policy of insurance, No. 33.229234-50E, issued by Motorists Mutual Insurance Company (hereinafter "Motorists"). A true and accurate copy of Policy No. 33.229234-50E is attached to the Affidavit of Erik E. Abrahamsen, Esq., as Exhibit "A". After receiving notification of the lawsuit, Motorists provided a defense to Dandy-Jim, Inc., pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in the aforesaid insurance policy, but subject to a reservation of rights. (See Abrahamsen Affidavit, P6). Accordingly, Motorists has clearly met its obligation to provide a defense to Dandy-Jim, Inc., pursuant to the terms and conditions of the policy.

Based on the allegations in Case No. CV-06-583434 and the coverage provisions in its policy, Motorists strongly believes that Dandy-Jim, Inc., is not entitled to coverage for the damages, if any, which may be awarded to Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour in the underlying litigation. In order to obtain a determination regarding the lack of coverage, Motorists filed a Complaint for Declaratory Judgment asserting that Dandy-Jim, Inc., is not entitled to coverage and/or a defense under the "property damage" coverage or "advertising injury" coverage provided by Policy No. 33.229234-50E. During the summary judgment proceedings in this declaratory judgment action, the Defendants/Appellees did not argue or assert that the alleged TCPA violations fall within the scope of the "property damage" coverage in Policy No. 33.229234-50E. Thus, the coverage issue on appeal only involves whether Dandy-Jim, Inc., is entitled to coverage and/or a defense under the "advertising injury" provisions in Policy No. 33.229234-50E, not the "property damage" provisions.

III. THE TELEPHONE CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT.

The Plaintiffs in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas have alleged that Dandy-Jim, Inc., committed a willful violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) for transmitting or causing to be transmitted certain unsolicited advertisements to Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor, Ali Mohammadpour arid others through the use of telephone facsimile machines. According to the Complaint, these alleged activities occurred between February 15, 2002, and May, 2003. (See Abrahamsen Affidavit, Exhibit "B"). In particular, the Plaintiffs in the underlying litigation have alleged that Dandy-Jim, Inc., violated Section 227(b)(1)(C) of the TCPA which provides as follows:

(b) Restrictions on use of automated telephone equipment

(1) Prohibitions

It shall be unlawful for any person within the United States, or any person outside the United States if the recipient is within the United States-

(C) to use any telephone facsimile machine, computer, or other device to send, to a telephone facsimile machine, an unsolicited advertisement, unless -

(i) the unsolicited advertisement is from a sender with an established business relationship with the recipient;

(ii) the sender obtained the number of the telephone facsimile machine through -

(I) the voluntary communication of such number, within the context of such established business relationship, from the recipient of the unsolicited advertisement, or

(II) a directory, advertisement, or site on the Internet to which the recipient voluntarily agreed to make available its facsimile number for public distribution.

except that this clause shall not apply in the case of an unsolicited advertisement that is sent based on an established business relationship with the recipient that was in existence before July 9, 2005, if the sender possessed the facsimile machine number of the recipient before such date of enactment; and

(iii) the unsolicited advertisement contains a notice meeting the requirements under paragraph (2)(D),

except that the exception under clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply with respect to an unsolicited advertisement sent to a telephone facsimile machine by a sender to whom a request has been made not to send future unsolicited advertisements to such telephone facsimile machine that complies with the requirements under paragraph (2)(E); or

Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Title 47, U.S. Code, § 227(b)(1)(C). The Plaintiffs have brought the action against Dandy-Jim, Inc., in the underlying litigation under § 227(b)(3) seeking statutory damages of $ 500.00 for each violation, and treble statutory damages for "willful" or "knowing" violations.

The issue to be determined in this appeal is whether the Trial Court erred in holding that Dandy-Jim, Inc., is entitled to coverage and a defense for those allegations set forth and alleged in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas which are based upon alleged violations of the TCPA. For all of the reasons set forth in this Brief, Motorists respectfully requests this Court to determine and declare that Dandy-Jim, Inc., is not entitled to coverage and/or a defense under Policy No. 33.229234-50E for the alleged TCPA violations, to overrule the Trial Court's Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, and to either enter final judgment in favor of Motorists or remand this case to the Trial Court for further proceedings.

STATEMENT OF LAW

I. THE TRIAL COURT COMMITTED REVERSIBLE ERROR BY GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF DEFENDANTS/APPELLEES AND OVERRULING THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF PLAINTIFF/APPELLANT MOTORISTS MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY AS DEFENDANT/APPELLEE DANDY-JIM, INC., IS NOT ENTITLED TO "ADVERTISING INJURY" COVERAGE UNDER POLICY NO. 33.229234-50E FOR THE TCPA CLAIMS IN CASE NO. CV-06-583434 IN THE CUYAHOGA COUNTY COURT OF COMMON PLEAS AS A MATTER OF LAW.

Policy No. 33.229234-50E issued by Motorists to Dandy-Jim, Inc., provides various coverages, including "advertising injury" coverage, in the Commercial General Liability Coverage Form, Endorsement CG 0001 (07-98), as amended by Endorsement CG 0057 (09-099). (See Abrahamsen Affidavit, Exhibit "A"). Yet, based on the clear and unambiguous language in the policy and under Ohio law, no coverage is available to Dandy-Jim, Inc., under the "advertising injury" provisions in the Motorists policy for the TCPA allegations in the Plaintiffs' Complaint filed in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas. The Commercial General Liability Coverage Form, Endorsement CG 0001 (07-98), in Policy No. 33.229234-50E provides liability coverage for "advertising injury" under Section I, Coverage B, as follows:

SECTION I

COVERAGE B PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING INJURY LIABILITY

1. Insuring Agreement

a. We will pay those sums that the insured becomes legally obligated to pay as damages because of "personal and advertising injury" to which this insurance applies. We will have the right and duty to defend the insured against any "suit" seeking those damages. However, we will have no duty to defend the insured against any "suit" seeking damages for "personal and advertising injury" to which this insurance does not apply …

Commercial General Liability Coverage Form, Endorsement CG 0001 (07-98), Section I, Coverage B(1)(a), p. 5 of 14. In addition, the "Definitions" section of the Commercial General Liability Coverage Form, Endorsement CG 0001 (07-98), defines "advertising injury", in pertinent part, as follows:

14. "Personal and advertising injury" means Injury, including consequential "bodily injury", arising out of one or more of the following offenses:

a. False arrest, detention or imprisonment;

b. Malicious prosecution;

c. The wrongful eviction from, wrongful entry into, or invasion of the right of private occupancy of a room, dwelling or premises that a person occupies, committed by or on behalf of its owner, landlord or lessor;

d. Oral or written publication of material that slanders or libels a person or organization's goods, products or services:

e. Oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy;

f. The use of another's advertising idea in your "advertisement"; or

g. Infringing upon another's copyright, trade dress or slogan in your "advertisement".

Commercial General Liability Coverage Form, Endorsement CG 0001 (07-98), Definitions, P14, p. 13 of 14. An analysis of these policy provisions clearly establishes that no "advertising injury" coverage is available to Dandy-Jim, Inc., under Ohio law.

In insurance coverage cases involving alleged TCPA violations, it is typically argued that "advertising injury" coverage is available under paragraph 14(e) of the Definitions which defines "advertising injury" as an "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy." Based on the clear and unambiguous language in the insurance policy, and further based upon Ohio law and the relevant opinions from other jurisdictions, the alleged conduct of Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., does not constitute "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy" and, therefore, Defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., is not entitled to coverage and/or a defense under the "advertising injury" coverage provided in the Motorists policy for those allegations and claims set forth in the underlying litigation.

A. A violation of the TCPA constitutes a violation of the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, not the "secrecy" aspect.

In this appeal, the relevant inquiry is whether a violation of the TCPA falls within the definition of "advertising injury" as provided by the Motorists policy. In particular, does the sending of unsolicited facsimiles in alleged violation of the TCPA constitute "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy?" As discussed below, there are various aspects of the right to privacy under Ohio law, and it is extremely important to determine, for purposes of insurance coverage, what aspect of the right of privacy has been violated by an alleged violation of the TCPA. Based on numerous opinions which have addressed this exact issue, a violation of the TCPA constitutes a violation of the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, not the "secrecy" aspect.

The Ohio Supreme Court has recognized the various aspects of a cause of action for invasion of the right of privacy in its opinion rendered in Housh v. Peth (1956), 165 Ohio St. 35 (syllabus). In the syllabus of the Housh opinion, the Ohio Supreme Court outlined the cause of action for the invasion of the right of privacy as follows:

2. An actionable invasion of the right of privacy is the unwarranted appropriation or exploitation of one's personality, the publicizing of one's private affairs with which the public has no legitimate concern, or the wrongful intrusion into one's private activities in such a manner as to outrage or cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities.

Id., at syllabus. In the Housh opinion, the Ohio Supreme Court recognized both the "seclusion" and the "secrecy" aspects of the right of privacy under Ohio law. More recently, the Ohio Supreme Court recognized the "false light" aspect of the right to privacy in Welling v. Weinfeld, No. 2005-1964, 2007-0hio-2451, but the "false light" aspect of the right of privacy is not relevant to the coverage dispute at hand.

In the present case, the sending of unsolicited facsimiles constitutes an alleged intrusion into the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, not a violation of the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy. In other words, the TCPA is designed to protect claimants from unwanted and unsolicited advertisements which are being sent by facsimile over the telephone lines. It is not the content of the facsimiles which is objectionable. Instead, it is the fact that the facsimile has been sent to the claimant's residence or business which serves as the basis for a TCPA violation. Accordingly, it is quite obvious that an alleged violation of the TCPA involves the "seclusion" component of the right to privacy under Ohio law.

Numerous courts in other jurisdictions have addressed this precise issue and have held that unsolicited facsimiles constitute seclusion-type privacy violations. American States Ins. Co. v. Capital Associates of Jackson Co., Inc. (U.S. Ct. of App., 7th Cir., Dec. 23, 2004), 392 F.3d 939. See also, ACS Systems, Inc. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (Jan. 29, 2007), 147 Cal. App.4th 137. In the ACS Systems opinion, the Court of Appeals of California discussed the "seclusion" and "secrecy" aspects of the right of privacy as follows:

The courts have found it analytically helpful to identify two meanings for the right of privacy: "secrecy" and "seclusion." … A person who wants to conceal a criminal conviction, bankruptcy, or love affair from friends or business relations asserts a claim to privacy in the sense of secrecy. "A person who wants to stop solicitors from ringing his doorbell and peddling vacuum cleaners at 9:00 p. m. asserts a claim to privacy in the sense of seclusion." Thus, a person claiming the privacy right of seclusion asserts the right to be free, in a particular location, from disturbance by others. A person claiming the privacy right of secrecy asserts the right to prevent disclosure of personal information to others. Invasion of the privacy right of seclusion involves the means, manner, and method of communication in a location (or at a time) which disturbs the recipient's seclusion. By contrast, invasion of the privacy right of secrecy involves the content of communication that occurs when someone's private, personal information is disclosed to a third person.

Id., at 148-149. The Court of Appeals then proceeded to address whether a violation of the TCPA constitutes a violation of the "seclusion" or "secrecy" aspects of the right of privacy. Since the unsolicited facsimiles did not contain any type of "secret" information, but simply disturbed the recipients of the facsimiles, the Court of Appeals held that "[b]y alleging violations of the TCPA, the Kaufman suit alleged the violation of "seclusion" privacy." Id., at 149. See also, Melrose Hotel Co. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (U.S. Dist. Ct. E.D. Penn., April 19, 2006),432 F. Supp. 2d 488 (applying Pennsylvania law), at 501-02; Resource Bankshares Corp. v. St. Paul Mercury Ins. Co. (U.S. Ct. App., 4th Cir., May 11, 2005),407 F.3d 631, 642 (applying Virginia law). In fact, in the Resource Bankshares opinion, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, specifically noted as follows:

… the TCPA's unsolicited fax prohibition protects "seclusion" privacy, for which content is irrelevant.

Id., at 642. Accordingly, a violation of the TCPA infringes upon the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, not the "secrecy" aspect, which is important for purposes of the coverage analysis in this appeal.

B. The "advertising injury" coverage in the Motorists policy provides coverage for the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy, not the "seclusion" aspect implicated by a violation of the TCPA.

As noted above, a violation of the TCPA constitutes a violation of the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, not the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy. Contrary to the Trial Court's Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, the Motorists policy only provides coverage for the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy, as demonstrated by the use of the word "publication." The relevant definition of "advertising injury" in the policy is "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy," and publication is only relevant to the "secrecy" aspect. Since the policy language in question requires publication (which is only relevant to the "secrecy" aspect), then the relevant definition set forth in Paragraph 14(e) only affords coverage to insureds for violations of the secrecy-type invasions of the right of privacy.

Several courts in other jurisdictions have addressed this precise issue. In American States Insurance Co. v. Capital Associates of Jackson Co., Inc., supra, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Seventh District, analyzed whether a TCPA claim fell within the scope of coverage under the "advertising injury" provisions in an insurance policy issued by American States Insurance Company. The phrase "advertising injury" in the American States policy was defined as the "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy," which is the identical definition involved in the present case. The U.S. Court of Appeals determined that such definition deals with secrecy-type claims rather than seclusion-type claims. In doing so, the U.S. Court of Appeals held as follows:

The structure of the policy strongly implies that coverage is limited to secrecy interests. It covers a "publication" that violates a right of privacy. In a secrecy situation, publications matters; otherwise secrecy is maintained. In a seclusion situation, publication is irrelevant. A late-night knock on the door or other interruption can impinge on seclusion without any need for publication. Contacting one customer at a time may not be "publication" at all for purposes of advertising-injury coverage … To put this differently, § 227(b)(1)(C) condemns a particular means of communicating an advertisement, rather than the contents of that advertisement - while an advertising-injury coverage deals with informational content.

Id., at 942-943. Thus, the U.S. Court of Appeals held that no coverage existed for the TCPA claim under the advertising-injury clause in the American States policy. 1

The U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania, relied upon the American States holding in Melrose Hotel Co. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co., supra, in an opinion issued on April 19, 2006. In this case, the definition of "advertising injury" included "making known to any person or organization covered material that violates a person's right to privacy. " Id., at 491. The U.S. District Court concluded that the word "privacy" is clear and unambiguous, that the policy restricts or confines the word "privacy" to interests in secrecy, and that the use of the word "privacy" in the policy is confined to matters of secrecy, not seclusion. Id., at 501-502. The Court further noted that reading the entire policy in context and in its entirety demonstrated that coverage was afforded for secrecy-type claims for invasion of privacy, not seclusion-type claims. Id., at 502. Accordingly, the U.S. District Court held that the TCPA violations did not fall within the scope of the "advertising injury" provisions of the St. Paul policy.

In Resource Bankshares Corp. v. St. Paul Mercury Ins. Co., supra, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, while applying Virginia law, addressed the issue of whether a TCPA violation fell within the scope of the definition of "advertising injury" in the St. Paul policy. The St. Paul policy provided the following definition: "Making known to any person or organization written or spoken material that violates a person's right of privacy." Id., at 634. The U.S. Court of Appeals then addressed the following issue:

The real question, then, is whether, when read in context, a reasonable purchaser of insurance would believe that the sort of privacy interests protected by the policies overlap with the sort of privacy with which the TCPA is concerned.

Id., at 640. The U.S. Court of Appeals answered this question in the negative. After analyzing the coverage issues, the Court of Appeals noted as follows:

This passage puts words to the gut instinct one feels when comparing the class-action complaint with St. Paul's policies: if the class-action complaint alleges any violation of privacy, it is "seclusion" privacy. It is concerned with the manner of the advertisement. In contrast, the advertising-injury offense part of the policies is exclusively concerned with those types of privacy, … which, like secrecy, are implicated by the content of the advertisements.

Consider closely the text and context of the operative sentence. It states that coverage exists for advertisements "making known to any person or organization written or spoken material that violates a person's right to privacy." It requires undue strain to believe that sending an unsolicited fax ad that has no private information or conduct (but rather simply advertised fairly the sender's wares) can reasonably be said to "make known" material that violates a person's right to privacy. It surely seems to us that the plainest and most common reading of the phrase indicates that "making known" implies telling, sharing or otherwise divulging, such that the injured party is the one whose private material is made known, not the one to whom the material is made known.

Id., at 641. In reaching its decision, the Court of Appeals also noted that the remaining offenses in the "advertising injury" definitions provided by the policy all related to the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy. Following an extensive analysis, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit, ultimately held that the policy issued by St. Paul only provided coverage for content-based or "secrecy" violations, but did not provide coverage for any "seclusion" violations. Id., at 642-643.

Likewise, the Court of Appeals of California, Second District, reached the identical result in the recent opinion of ACS Systems, Inc. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co., supra, which was issued on January 29, 2007. In that case, the Court of Appeals analyzed the following definition of "advertising injury": "Making known to any person or organization written or spoken material that violates an individual's right of privacy." Id., at 143. The Court of Appeals first noted that a TCPA claim involves an alleged violation of the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, but the Court then determined that the St. Paul policy only provided "advertising injury" coverage if the harmful content violates the "secrecy" right of privacy. Id., at 150-151. The Court noted that nothing in the content of the unsolicited faxed advertisements violated the recipient's "secrecy" right of privacy, nor did the faxes disclose any private or confidential information about the recipients to third parties. Id., at 150. Since a violation of the TCPA constitutes an invasion of the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, but the St. Paul policy provided coverage for secrecy-type violations only, the Court of Appeals of California held that the faxes, which violated the TCPA, did not violate the recipient's right of privacy so as to constitute an "advertising injury" within the scope of the St. Paul coverage.

The American States holding was also upheld and determined to be directly applicable by the U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana, in the opinion of Erie Ins. Exchange v. Kevin T. Watts, Inc. (U.S. Dist. Ct., S.D. Ind., May 30, 2006), 2006 WL 3776255 (applying Indiana law). It is important to note that the U.S. District Court addressed the identical policy language in the Erie Ins. Exchange case which is involved in the case at hand. Id., at *2. In determining the American States reasoning and holding to be directly on point, the U.S. District Court held that the "advertising injury" coverage in the Erie policy did not cover the TCPA claims. Subsequently, the holding in Erie Exchange, supra, was just recently re-affirmed by the United States District Court, Southern District of Indiana, in Ace Mortgage Funding, Inc., v. The Travelers Indemnity Co. of America (U.S. Dist. Ct., S.D. Ind., March 10, 2008), 2008 WL 686953, wherein the Court noted;

On the advertising injury issue, Judge Tinder [in Erie Exchange] held that TCPA claims were not covered because they were not based on the publication of the content of the messages and thus did not invade the secrecy type of privacy interest contemplated by the insurance policy.

Id., at *2. Thus, in the Ace Mortgage Funding opinion, supra, the United States District Court held that the "advertising injury" coverage in an insurance policy "did not provide for either indemnification or a defense for a lawsuit against the insured alleging TCPA violations" under Indiana law. Id., at *2.

In summary, the American States holding is directly on point as the U.S. Court of Appeals addressed the identical definition of "advertising injury" which is involved in the present case. As noted, the American States holding was upheld and applied by the U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana, in a recent case (Erie Ins. Exchange) involving the identical policy language. Although there are some differences in the policy language analyzed and interpreted in the Melrose Hotel, Resource Bankshares, ACS Systems and Ace Mortgage Funding opinions, those opinions are extremely relevant and directly applicable since the policy language analyzed in those cases is substantially similar to the policy language in the case at hand. Motorists recognizes that certain other jurisdictions have reached contrary results, such as the opinions set forth in the Defendants/Appellees' Briefs filed at the trial court level. However, Motorists urges this Court to adopt the reasoning articulated by the Courts in the holdings in American States, Melrose Hotel, Resource Bankshares, ACS Systems, Erie Ins. Exchange and Ace Mortgage Funding as those opinions have better reasoning and are more consistent with Ohio law. In fact, Motorists has discussed why the American States reasoning is more consistent with Ohio law in the sections of this Appellate Brief as set forth below.

C. The "advertising injury" coverage in the Motorists policy has not been triggered since the alleged "material" did not violate the Defendants/Appellees' right to privacy.

Just as in all contract interpretation cases, the Court must look to the precise language in the Motorists policy to determine its meaning and the intent of the parties to the insurance contract. Here, the definition of "advertising injury" in question provides as follows: "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy." Based on the plain and ordinary language used in this definition, it is the "material" which must violate a person's right of privacy, and not the "publication" of such material. This interpretation of the subject definition, as required by Ohio law, is perfectly consistent with and in accord with the holdings by the various courts in the American States, Melrose Hotel, Resource Bankshares, ACS Systems, Erie Ins. Exchange and Ace Mortgage Funding opinions. In all of those cases, the Courts held that the various policies only provided coverage for the publication of content-based material which violated a person's "secrecy" right. In fact, the only logical interpretation of the subject definition of "advertising injury" is that the "material" must violate a person's right of privacy in order for coverage to be afforded. Since the faxes allegedly transmitted by Dandy-Jim, Inc., did not contain any objectionable content and did not violate the Defendants/Appellees' "secrecy" right of privacy, then the "publication" of such material does not fall within the definition of an "advertising injury" under the Motorists policy as a matter of law.

The above interpretation of the phrase "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy" is entirely consistent with Ohio law. In fact, Ohio law requires such interpretation pursuant to the "last antecedent rule." The "last antecedent rule" is a rule of construction which provides that qualifying language in a statute or contract modifies the "last antecedent" before that language, that is, the word or phrase most immediately preceding the qualifying language. Ohio courts have applied the last antecedent rule while interpreting the terms and provisions in contracts. In Hilroc Condo Unit Owners' Assoc., Inc. v. HWC Realty, Inc., No. 87344, 2006-0hio-4770, the Court of Appeals for Cuyahoga County, Eighth Appellate District, specifically rejected a party's interpretation of a contract which violated the "last antecedent rule." In analyzing the terms of a lease, the Eighth District Court of Appeals first recognized that it must look to the plain language of the document, that the document must be interpreted as a whole, and that all words and phrases must be given their natural and commonly accepted meaning. Id., at P32. The Court further rejected the defendant's attempt to contravene the rule of contract interpretation known as the "last antecedent rule." In its opinion, the Eighth District Court of Appeals stated as follows:

Moreover, defendant's interpretation would contravene the "last antecedent" rule which states that referential and qualifying words and phrases, where no contrary intention appears, refer solely to the last antecedent … That is, any qualifying words or phrases refer to the language immediately preceding the qualifier, unless common sense shows that it was meant to apply to something more distant or less obvious.

Id., at P35. The Hilroc opinion was more recently cited, with approval, in the opinion of Lo-Med Prescription Services, Inc. v. The Eliza Jennings Group, No. 88112, 2007-0hio-212, for the proposition that the "last antecedent rule" must be applied while interpreting a contract. Thus, the Eighth District Court of Appeals has routinely applied the "last antecedent rule" in interpreting disputed language in contracts, as have other appellate jurisdictions in Ohio. In fact, in Bilow v. Wayne Mutual Ins. Co., No. 7-05-10, 2006-0hio-737, the Third District Court of Appeals applied the "last antecedent rule" in interpreting an insurance contract.

Moreover, the Ohio Supreme Court recently discussed the applicability of the "last antecedent rule" in cases involving the interpretation of insurance contracts in Wohl v. Swinney, No. 2007-0593, 2008-0hio-2334. In that opinion, the Ohio Supreme Court discussed, in general terms, when the rule of construction known as the "last antecedent rule" must be applied:

However, in relying on the last-antecedent rule, appellees overlook the fact that the rule applies only when no contrary intention otherwise appears. Thus, if there is contrary evidence that demonstrates that a qualifying phrase was intended to apply to more than the term immediately preceding it, we will not apply the last-antecedent rule so as to contravene that intent. Before applying the last-antecedent rule, we must therefore examine the contract as a whole to determine whether any contrary intent appears. See Westfield Ins. Co. v. Galatis (2003), 100 Ohio St.3d 216, 2003-0hio-5849, 797 N.E. 2d. 1256, P11 ("When confronted with an issue of contractual interpretation, the role of a Court is to give effect to the intent of the parties to the agreement. We examine the insurance contract as a whole and presume that the intent of the parties is reflected in the language used in the policy.").

Id. at P13. In the Wohl opinion, supra, the Ohio Supreme Court then proceeded to review the entire insurance policy and determined that the application of the "last antecedent rule" would cause portions of the insurance contract to be meaningless, unnecessary, and result in an internally inconsistent interpretation. Although the Ohio Supreme Court declined to apply the last antecedent rule in its opinion in Wohl v. Swinney, supra, the Ohio Supreme Court clearly held that the last antecedent rule is a valid rule of construction for insurance contracts under Ohio law "when no contrary intention otherwise appears."

In the case at hand, the "last antecedent rule" must be applied according to the guidelines set forth by the Ohio Supreme Court in Wahl v. Swinney, supra. The only phrase in question in this appeal is the definition of "advertising injury" in the Motorists policy which provides as follows: "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy." This definition stands alone, and there is nothing in the policy which would preclude the application of the last antecedent rule. After all, the Ohio Supreme Court held in Wahl v. Swinney, supra, that the last antecedent rule applies "only when no contrary intention otherwise appears,", and there is absolutely no contrary intention anywhere in the Motorists policy. In the absence of a contrary intention, the last antecedent rule must be applied in interpretating the relevant definition of "advertising injury" under Ohio law.

When applying the "last antecedent rule" in the case at hand, it is undisputed that the phrase "violates a person's right of privacy" refers to the word "material" and not the word "publication." In other words, coverage would only be triggered when "material" that violates a person's right to privacy is published, and not just because a publication, per se, occurs which might violate a person's right to privacy. Application of the "last antecedent rule" places the focus on the content of the "material," as intended by the policy, and not the mere publication itself. If the "material" must violate the right to privacy, rather than the mere publication, then the violation of the "secrecy" interests would be covered, but not the "seclusion" interests. This interpretation, as required by the application of the "last antecedent rule" under Ohio law, is consistent with the interpretations in the opinions of American States, Resource Bankshares, Melrose Hotel, ACS Systems, Erie Ins. Exchange and Ace Mortgage Funding.

The "last antecedent rule" was instrumental in the opinion issued by the Court of Appeals of California, Second District, in ACS Systems, Inc. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co., supra. The Court noted that the "last antecedent rule" has been applied to both statutes and contracts, and that it has been used specifically to interpret insurance policy language. Id., at 150. While applying the "last antecedent rule," the Court of Appeals had no option but to interpret the disputed policy language as follows:

Considered grammatically, the word "that" and "making known to any person or organization written or spoken material that violates an individual's right of privacy" can reasonably be interpreted only to refer to "material." We find that "material" is not only the last antecedent of "that" but is also its only antecedent. "That" does not refer to "making known." Thus, this particular advertising offense only refers to "material that violates an individual's right of privacy," and does not refer to "making known that violates an individual's right of privacy."

Id., at 150. [Emphasis added]. This application of the "last antecedent rule" is also required under Ohio law, as recently held by the Ohio Supreme Court in Wahl v. Swinney, supra, absent a contrary intent in the policy.

Based on the plain language of Paragraph 14(e) of the definition of "advertising injury," and applying the rules of contract interpretation in Ohio, the phrase "that violates a person's right to privacy" can only refer to the word "material." In other words, in order for coverage to be afforded under the "advertising injury" provision in the Motorists policy, then the "material" must violate a person's right to privacy. It is not the mere fact of publication which triggers coverage. Here, there is absolutely no evidence or even a suggestion that any of the contents of the unsolicited faxes were objectionable or violated the Defendants/Appellees' right of privacy in any manner. Instead, the Defendants/Appellees simply allege that the mere receipt of the faxes violated their right to privacy, which is the seclusion-type of violation not covered by the Motorists policy. For the foregoing reasons, Motorists respectfully submits that the Trial Court erred in holding that Dandy-Jim, Inc., is entitled to coverage and a defense under the "advertising injury" provisions in the Motorists policy.

D. No coverage exists under the "advertising injury" provisions in the Motorists policy since "publication" requires disclosure to third persons.

Another reason exists why no coverage IS available under the "advertising injury" provisions of the Motorists policy, which is that no publication, as defined by Ohio law, has ever occurred. In this case, the Defendants/Appellees allege that their right of privacy was violated by receiving unsolicited faxed advertisements from Dandy-Jim, Inc., or its agent. In other words, the Defendants/Appellees allege a violation of the TCPA based upon the receipt of the unsolicited advertisements. The Defendants/Appellees are not alleging that Dandy-Jim, Inc., disseminated the faxes or advertisements to third persons or parties. Based on this set of facts, no "publication" has occurred under Ohio law.

The word "publication" is not defined in the Motorists policy, so the Court must look to the "ordinary and plain meaning" of the word. Ohio courts have typically defined the word "publication" in the context of defamation lawsuits. In that context and under Ohio law, courts have held as follows:

The publication of defamatory matter is an essential element to liability for defamation … Publication is "communication intentionally or by a negligent act to one other than the person defamed." Third Restatement of the Law (Second), Torts (1965), § 577(1). Any act by which the defamatory matter is communicated to a third party constitutes publication … Also, it is sufficient that the defamatory matter is communicated to one person only, even though that person is enjoined to secrecy.

See Gilbert v, WNIR 100FM, 142 Ohio App. 3d 725. Thus, a "publication" typically requires a communication to a third person or party. Such a publication never occurred in the present case.

The opinion of David v. Nationwide Mutual Ins. Co., (1995), 106 Ohio App. 3d 298, is instructive on the publication issue. In that case, Daoud Investments, Inc., sought coverage under the "personal and advertising injury" provisions in a liability policy issued by Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company for liability arising out of sexual remarks made by an employee to a claimant. The Court of Appeals for Hamilton County, First Appellate District, analyzed the terms and conditions of the policy and ultimately determined that the insured was not entitled to coverage under the Nationwide policy. The Court noted that in order for coverage to be afforded under the Nationwide policy, the violation of the right to privacy must have occurred by "oral or written publication." Since the offensive statements were made by the insured's employee directly to the plaintiff, the Court held that no publication ever occurred. Without "publication" of the offensive material, the Court held that there was no coverage available under the "personal or advertising injury" provisions in the Nationwide policy.

Similar to the plaintiff in David, supra, the Defendants/Appellees in the present case allege damages relating to communications made directly to them, not to any third persons or parties, which is the very essence of an alleged TCPA violation. In other words, no "publication" ever occurred. Without a "publication," the conduct of Dandy-Jim, Inc., does not fall within the definition of an "advertising injury" in the Motorists policy as a matter of law.

E. Marginal direct contact with a claimant is not an intrusion into seclusion violating the right of privacy under Ohio law.

As discussed above, there must be a violation of a person's "secrecy" right of privacy in order for coverage to be afforded under the "advertising injury" provisions in the Motorists policy. However, even if it is assumed for sake of argument that a violation of the "seclusion" right of privacy falls with the scope of coverage (which it does not), then Motorists is still entitled to judgment as a matter of law.

In the Complaint filed in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour allege that they received a few unsolicited facsimiles, ranging from 8 to Kevin Chambers to 44 to Felix Fedor. Under Ohio law, marginal direct contact with a claimant does not constitute an intrusion into the "seclusion" right of privacy. In Adlaka v. Giannini, No. 05 MA 105, 2006-0hio-4611, the Court of Appeals of Mahoning County, Seventh Appellate District, held that the sending by an attorney of two unsolicited letters to a person did not constitute harassment, defamation or invasion of privacy. Id., at P35. Likewise, in Misseldine v. Corporate Investigative Services, Inc., No. 81771, 2003-0hio-2740, the Court of Appeals for Cuyahoga County, Eighth Appellate District, held that a "few phone calls do not constitute such wrongful intrusion" for purposes of an invasion of privacy claim. Id., at P40. Thus, a few marginal, direct contacts with a claimant do not constitute a violation of a person's "right of privacy" under Ohio law. This is another reason why the Trial Court committed reversible error in granting summary judgment in favor of the Defendants/Appellees.

F.  Defendant/Appellee Dandy-Jim, Inc., did not act "in such a manner as to outrage or cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities," nor in a highly offensive manner, and the Defendants/Appellees cannot, therefore, establish a violation of their right to privacy under Ohio law.

As discussed above, Defendant/Appellee Dandy-Jim, Inc., is only entitled to coverage under the "advertising injury" provisions in the policy for the "oral or written publication of material that violates a person's right of privacy." The fact that the Defendants/Appellees may have received a limited number of facsimiles at their residences does not establish a violation of their right of privacy under Ohio law. In fact, a technical violation of the TCPA by Dandy-Jim, Inc., if proven, is irrelevant to the insurance coverage analysis. In other words, a violation of Defendants/Appellees' "right of privacy" must have occurred, not just a violation of the TCPA, in order for coverage to be afforded under the Motorists policy. Under Ohio law, no violation of the Defendants/Appellees' right of privacy has occurred as a matter of law.

It is important to note what is being alleged by the Defendants in the underlying litigation which they claim violated their right to privacy. It is alleged that Kevin Chambers received 8 faxed advertisements between February, 2002, and April, 2002; that Dennis Dawson received 23 faxed advertisements between March, 2002, and December 16, 2002; that Felix Fedor received 44 faxed advertisements between July 9, 2002, and May, 2003, and that Ali Mohammadpour received 22 faxed advertisements between December, 2002, and March, 2003. (See Abrahamsen Affidavit, Exhibit "B"). Even assuming that these allegations are true, then the receipt of such a limited number of facsimiles does not constitute an invasion of the Defendants/Appellees' right of privacy under Ohio law.

In order to establish a claim for invasion of the right privacy, a claimant must prove something beyond a mere inconvenience. In the recent opinion of Welling v. Weinfeld, No. 2005-1964, 2007-Ohio-2451, the Ohio Supreme Court reiterated the cause of action for invasion of the right of privacy as follows:

An actionable invasion of the right of privacy is [1] the unwarranted appropriation or exploitation of one's personality, [2] the publicizing of one's private affairs with which the public has no legitimate concern, or [3] the wrongful intrusion into one's private activities in such a manner as to outrage or cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities.

Id., at P15. In the Welling opinion, supra, the Ohio Supreme Court recognized an additional cause of action for the invasion of privacy, which is the false-light invasion, but only under circumstances in which "the false light in which the other was placed would be highly offensive to a reasonable person." Id., at 61. Thus, it is readily apparent under Ohio law, as articulated by the Ohio Supreme Court, that minor inconveniences or trifling offenses do not constitute an invasion of the right of privacy. Instead, the alleged tortfeasor's conduct must be so extreme "as to outrage or cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities," or "be highly offensive to a reasonable person." The mere receipt of a few facsimiles by the Defendants/Appellees clearly does not rise to this level.

An excellent example of the high standard in proving a violation or invasion of the right of privacy in Ohio is the opinion of Haefka v. W.W. Extended Care , No. 01 CA007863, 2001-Ohio-1796. In this case, the plaintiff sued defendant W.W. Extended Care for an invasion of her right to privacy on the basis that the defendant had mailed billing statements for an unpaid balance to her on a monthly basis between September, 1996, through January, 2000. Id., at p. 2. The Lorain County Court of Common Pleas granted summary judgment in favor of the defendant on the plaintiff's right of privacy claim. Upon appeal, the Ninth District Court of Appeals affirmed. In its opinion, the Court of Appeals recognized that the plaintiff's claim was for an alleged intrusion upon the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy. The Court then noted the Ohio Supreme Court's holding in Sustin v. Fee (1982), 69 Ohio St.2d 143, in which the Court explained a tortfeasor's liability for the tort of intrusion into seclusion:

[t]he scope of a person's liability for intrusion into another's seclusion is stated in Section 652B of the Restatement of Torts 2d, as follows: 'One who intentionally intrudes, physically or otherwise, upon the solitude or seclusion of another or his private affairs or concerns, is subject to liability to the other for invasion of his privacy, if the intrusion would be highly offensive to a reasonable person.'

Id., at p. 9, citing Sustin v. Fee (1982), 69 Ohio St.2d 143, 145. The Court further noted that the intrusion into "seclusion" tort is "akin to trespass in that it involves intrusion or prying into the plaintiff's private affairs." Id., at p. 9, citing Killilea v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1985), 27 Ohio App.3d 163, 166. The examples provided in the Haefka opinion included watching or photographing a person through the windows of his home, or wiretapping his telephone. Id., at p.10.

After noting the high standard for an action for invasion of privacy based on the "seclusion" aspect of the right of privacy, the Court held that the act of mailing billing statements monthly over a period of four years did not rise to the level of severity which would be "highly offensive to a reasonable person." In doing so, the Ninth District Court of Appeals held as follows:

A situation of this severity does not exist in this case. Appellees did not intrude upon Haefka's seclusion merely by mailing a billing statement each month. Furthermore, Haefka testified that most months she threw the statement in the trash. It is apparent that sending such billing statements would not result in outrage, mental suffering, shame or humiliation in a person of ordinary sensibilities, and this conduct cannot be said to be highly offensive to a reasonable person.

Id., at p. 10. Likewise, the receipt of a limited number of facsimiles over a period of months also does not rise to the level of severity which constitutes an invasion of the right of privacy under Ohio law.

A 1987 opinion issued by the Court of Appeals for Cuyahoga County, Eighth Appellate District, is also very instructive and clearly establishes that the limited number of facsimiles received by the Defendants/Appellees does not constitute an invasion of their right to privacy. In Society Nat'l Bank v. Napper (Ohio App. 8th Dist.), 1987 WL l3294, Society National Bank initiated an action against the defendant seeking to collect a debt, and the defendant filed a counterclaim for invasion of privacy. In seeking to collect on its debt, the bank's agent made a number of telephone calls to the defendant at her residence and her place of employment. Upon appeal, the Court of Appeals held that the telephone calls made by the bank to the defendant were reasonable and did not establish an invasion or violation of the defendant's right to privacy. The Court noted that there was no deliberate, systematic campaign of harassment. Id., at p. 2. In other words, the defendant's counterclaim for an alleged invasion of her right to privacy failed, according to the Eighth Appellate District, since the bank's conduct was not outrageous or did not "cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities."

In the present case, Paragraph 14(e) of the definitions of an "advertising injury" requires a violation of a person's "right of privacy" in order for "advertising injury" coverage to be afforded under the Motorists policy. In order to establish a violation of a person's right of privacy under Ohio law, a claimant must establish that the alleged tortfeasor intruded into the claimant's private activities or seclusion "in such a manner as to outrage or cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities," or show conduct which is "highly offensive to a reasonable person. " The activities of Dandy-Jim, Inc., in transmitting a few faxed advertisements to the Defendants/Appellees do not rise to the severity of a violation or invasion of the right to privacy under Ohio law. For purposes of insurance coverage, it does not matter if the Defendants/Appellees can prove a violation of the TCPA by Dandy-Jim, Inc. Even if a violation of the TCPA is proven, then such violation does not mean that a violation of the Defendants/Appellees' right to privacy occurred as defined by the Ohio Supreme Court and the appellate courts of Ohio. The mere receipt of a limited number of facsimiles over a period of months does not, as a matter of law, constitute a violation or invasion of the right to privacy. Consequently, the Trial Court erred in holding that Dandy-Jim, Inc., is entitled to coverage under the "advertising injury" provisions in the Motorists policy.

II. THE TRIAL COURT FAILED TO ADDRESS THE ISSUE OF WHETHER IT IS AGAINST THE PUBLIC POLICY OF OHIO TO INSURE AGAINST A STATUTORY AWARD OF TREBLE DAMAGES.

In the Complaint filed in Case No. CV-06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour seek to recover treble damages for alleged violations of the TCPA. Motorists strongly believes that Dandy-Jim, Inc, is not entitled to coverage under its policy for any of the claims in Case No. CV-06-583434, and has requested this Court of Appeals to overrule and reverse the Trial Court's holding on this issue. Yet, even if this Court should disagree and determine that coverage for TCPA claims is available under the Motorists policy, then it is still against the public policy of Ohio to insure against a statutory award of treble damages.

In Ohio, the nature of treble damages is similar to punitive damages in both application and from a policy standpoint. Punitive damages are intended to punish the offender and to deter others from engaging in the same conduct. Saberton v. Greenwald, 1946 Ohio St. 414 (1946); Wedge Products, Inc. V. Hartford Equity Sales Co., 31 Ohio St. 3d 65, 509 N.E.2d 74 (1987). Several courts in Ohio have held that treble damages are akin to punitive damages. Ohio is a jurisdiction in which it has been held that insuring punitive damage awards violates public policy. Casey v. Calhoun, 40 Ohio App. 3d 83, 85 (8th Dist. 1987). Jurisdictions which consider insurance for punitive damages to be against public policy typically do so for the reason that the culpable tortfeasor must not escape the intended punishment by shifting the burden to an insurance company. Further, the deterrent effect of punitive damages is greatly diminished if potential tortfeasors know that they can be indemnified against both compensatory and punitive damages. See, e.g., Northwestern Natl. Cas. Co. v. McNulty, 307 F.2d 432 (5th Cir. 1962); Ranells v. Cleveland, 41 Ohio St. 2d 1, 7, 321 N.E. 2d 885, 888 (1975). Thus, the motivation behind treble damage awards is the same as with punitive damages. The only significant distinction is that treble damage awards are permitted in limited scenarios that are prescribed by statute.

One such instance where treble damages may be awarded is found in § 901.51 of the Ohio Revised Code, which allows such recovery where one wrongfully and recklessly removes trees or other vegetation from another's property. In one appellate opinion, the Twelfth Appellate District held that an award of treble damages under Ohio Revised Code § 90 1.51 is intended to deter individuals from trespassing onto another's property and destroying vegetation existing on that property. Miller v. Jordan, 87 Ohio App. 3d 819, 822, 623 N.E. 2d 219, 222 (12th Dist. 1993). (Emphasis added).

Because of the nature of treble damages, some courts have not permitted recovery of both punitive and treble damages since such would amount to double recovery. In Harsh v. Mack Truck, 1984 WL 4795 (Ohio App. 9th Dist. 1984), the Ninth Appellate District refused to allow a plaintiff to recover both punitive damages and treble damages pursuant to the Ohio Odometer Rollback Act, stating "an award of both treble damages and punitive damages for the same act amounts to a double recovery or an excessive penalty." Id. at *3. Likewise, in Goss v. Cogswell, 1998 WL 401771 (Ohio App. 5th Dist. 1998), the Fifth Appellate District held that the trial court erred when it awarded a landowner treble damages under R.C. § 901.51 as well as punitive damages.

While the Ohio Supreme Court has yet to rule on this issue, other jurisdictions have found treble damages to be "punitive and exemplary in nature." Circle Oaks Sales Co. v. Real Estate Commissioner, 16 Cal.App. 3d 682, 684 (1971). The United States Supreme Court found treble damages to be a form of punitive damages, the purpose of which are to punish the person or entity doing the wrongful act and to discourage that person or entity from similar conduct in the future. Texas Industries, Inc. v. Radcliff Materials, Inc., 451 U.S. 630, 639 (1981) (interpreting the Sherman Antitrust Act). See also, Restatement (Second) of Torts § 908 (1979).

As discussed in this Brief, Motorists asserts that no coverage is available to Dandy-Jim, Inc., under the "advertising injury" provisions in the Motorists policy for any aspect of a TCPA claim. However, if this Court should disagree with Motorists' position, then the issue of potential coverage for treble damages must still be addressed. For all of the reasons set forth above, Motorists submits that it is against the public policy of the State of Ohio to insure against treble damages, just as it is for punitive damages. In the event that treble damages are awarded in Case No. CV -06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, then such treble damages should not be covered under any portion of the insurance policy issued by Motorists. Accordingly, Motorists respectfully requests this Court of Appeals to rule, as a matter of law, that it is against the public policy of Ohio to insure against treble damages which may be imposed for alleged TCPA violations, or else remand that issue, if necessary, back to the Trial Court for further proceedings.

CONCLUSION

For all of the reasons set forth above, Defendant/Appellee Dandy-Jim, Inc. is not entitled to coverage and/or a defense under the "advertising injury" provisions contained in Policy No. 33.229234-50E issued by Plaintiff/Appellant Motorists Mutual Insurance Company for those claims and allegations asserted in Case No. CV -06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas as a matter of law. In its Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, the Trial Court committed reversible error by granting the Motion for Summary Judgment in favor of Defendants/Appellees Kevin Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and Ali Mohammadpour, and by overruling the Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Motorists. Plaintiff/Appellant Motorists Mutual Insurance Company respectfully submits that the Trial Court erred for all of the following reasons:

1. By failing to hold that the "advertising injury" coverage in the Motorists policy provides coverage only for the "secrecy" aspect of the right of privacy, not the "seclusion" aspect implicated by a violation of the TCPA;

2. By failing to apply the last antecedent rule in interpreting the insurance contract, as is required by the Ohio Supreme Court based on its recent holding in Wohl v. Swinney, supra;

3. By failing to hold that the "advertising injury" coverage in the Motorists policy has not been triggered since the alleged" "material" did not violate the Defendants/Appellees' right to privacy;

4. By failing to hold that no coverage exists due to the lack of "publication" to third persons or parties;

5. By failing to hold that marginal, direct contact with a claimant is not an intrusion into the "seclusion" right of privacy under Ohio law;

6. By failing to recognize that receipt of a few facsimiles at a person's residence does not constitute conduct "as to outrage or cause mental suffering, shame or humiliation to a person of ordinary sensibilities", nor constitute highly offensive conduct, and, therefore, does not rise to the level of a violation of a right to privacy under Ohio law; and

7. By failing to address the issue of whether it is against the public policy of Ohio to insure against a statutory award of treble damages.

For all of these reasons, Plaintiff/Appellant Motorists Mutual Insurance Company respectfully requests the Court of Appeals overrule the Trial Court's Journal Entry filed on August 5, 2008, and to enter final judgment in favor of Motorists. In particular, Motorists respectfully requests this Court to declare that Defendant/Appellee Dandy-Jim, Inc., is not entitled to coverage under the "advertising injury" provisions in Policy No. 33.229234-50E for those claims and allegations asserted in Case No. CV -06-583434 in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas, nor is there any contractual obligation for Motorists to defendant Dandy-Jim, Inc., in the underlying litigation. In the alternative, in the event that the Court should determine that there is coverage for alleged TCPA claims under Policy No. 33.229234-50E, which is strenuously denied by Motorists, then Plaintiff/Appellant Motorists Mutual Insurance Company respectfully requests this Court to hold, as a matter of law, that it is against the public policy of Ohio for insurers such as Motorists to provide coverage for awards of statutory damages, as contemplated by the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or to remand the case back to the Trial Court for further proceedings on that issue.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ [Signature]

Merle D. Evans, III (#0019230)

DAY KETTERER, LTD.

Millennium Centre - Suite 300

200 Market Avenue North

P.O. Box 24213

Canton, Ohio 44701-4213

Telephone (330) 458-2041

Facsimile (330) 455-2633

mdevans@dayketterer.com

Attorney for Plaintiff/Appellant,

Motorists Mutual Insurance Company

PROOF OF SERVICE

This is to certify that a copy of the foregoing BRIEF OF PLAINTIFF/APPELLANT MOTORISTS MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY was sent by regular U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, this 15th day of October, 2008, to the following:

David Kolick, Esq.

Kolick, Georgeadis & Ernewein Co., L.P.A.

15294 Pearl Rd.

Strongsville, Ohio 44136

Attorney for Defendant/Appellee,

Dandy-Jim, Inc., dba

Brookgate Tire & Auto Center

Joseph R. Compoli, Jr., Esq.

612 East 185th Street

Cleveland, OH 44119

James R. Goodluck, Esq.

3517 St. Albans Road

Cleveland Heights, OH 44121

Attorneys for Defendants/Appellees, Kevin

Chambers, Dennis Dawson, Felix Fedor and

Ali Mohammadpour

/s/ [Signature]

Merle D. Evans, III (#0019230)

[SEE EXHIBIT A IN ORIGINAL]
