ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 1

THE FRANKLIN COUNTY MUNICIPAL COURT COMMITTED REVERSIBLE ERROR IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF THE APPELLEE AGAINST APPELLANTS TRI STATE CHIROPRACTIC AND MICHAEL CARANO, (Record 29).

ISSUES PRESENTED FOR REVIEW

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 1

Whether or not Appellee's failure to object in a timely manner to the alleged breach of the lease constitutes a waiver of the alleged breach under Ohio law.

Whether or not Appellants were responsible for rent payments after the expiration of the lease when Appellants assigned the lease and did not remain on the premises prior to the expiration of the lease and Appellees accepted rent payments from another party for the period from six months prior to the expiration of the lease and after the expiration of the lease.

Whether or not Appellee is entitled to attorney's fees.

Whether or not genuine issues of material fact remain to be litigated in this case.

Whether or not Appellee is entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law.

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

On November 13, 1998, Appellee filed a complaint with the Franklin County Municipal Court alleging claims for: (1) forcible entry and detainer and (2) failure to pay rent, against. Appellants Michael Carano (hereinafter "Carano") and Tri State Chiropractic (hereinafter "TSC"), Alberta Rivera (deceased for several years), and Todd Wilson (hereinafter "Wilson"). (See Plaintiff's Complaint, Record 1).

On January 15, 1999, Appellants Carano and TSC filed an Answer, Counterclaim and Cross Claim wherein Carano and TSC denied the allegations in Appellee's Complaint and alleged a claim for (1) breach of contract against Appellee for failure to return the security deposit of Carano and/or TSC. (See Answer, Counterclaim, and Cross Claim of Defendants Tri State Chiropractic and Michael A. Carano, Record 19).

On or about April 16, 1999, Appellee filed a Motion for Summary Judgment (See Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment, Record 24). Appellants Carano and TSC opposed Appellee's motion in a Memorandum Contra to Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment, filed on May 5, 1999. (See Defendant Michael A. Carano and Tri State Chiropractic's Memorandum Contra Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment, Record 25).

On May 19, 1999, Appellee filed a motion for Default Judgment against Appellant Todd Wilson. (See Entry Nunc Pro Tunc, Record 32).

On or about May 24, 1999, judgment was entered by the lower court sustaining Appellee's Motion for Summary Judgment against Carano and TSC and granting judgment for the Appellee in the amount of $ 2,641.79 and attorney's fees of $ 1,345.60 on Appellee's Complaint. Appellants Alberta Rivera and Wilson were dismissed with prejudice as party-Appellants, and the Counterclaim of Carano and TSC was dismissed with prejudice, with costs to Appellants TSC and Carano. No mention of the Appellants' Cross Claim was made in the Entry. (See Entry Record 29, attached).

On June 4, 1999, an Entry Nunc Pro Tunc was signed by the lower court, stating that on May 24, 1999, the Court had wrongly dismissed Appellant Wilson as a party-Appellant. The Appellee's Motion for Default Judgment against Wilson was granted per a separate court entry. (See Entry Nunc Pro Tunc, Record 32).

On or about June 24, 1999, the lower court sustained Appellee's Motion for Default Judgment and granted judgment in favor of Appellee against Appellant Wilson in the amount of $ 3,841.79 in addition to $ 1,345.60 in attorney's fees, plus interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from October 10, 1998, and all costs of court. (See Judgment Entry, Record 36).

Appellants Carano and TSC filed a Notice of Appeal from the May 24, 1999 entry of the trial court. On or about August 24, 1999, a Journal Entry of Dismissal was signed by this Court, indicating that a cross-claim against Wilson remained pending, such that the appeal was to be dismissed sua sponte for lack of an appealable order.

On September 28, 1999, Appellants Carano and TSC voluntarily dismissed Appellant Wilson from the case. (See Defendant, Michael A. Carano, et al's, Notice of Voluntary Dismissal of Defendant, W. Todd Wilson, Only, Record 45).

Appellants Carano and TSC have again filed a Notice of Appeal. The Record of Appeal was filed in the Court of Appeals on November 8, 1999. This is Appellant Carano and TSC's Brief appealing the Entry of May 24, 1999.

STATEMENT OF THE FACTS

On or about April 6, 1993, Tri State Chiropractic by and through Michael Carano executed a lease ("Lease") with Appellee/lessor for the premises located at 6010 East Main Street, Columbus, Ohio. (See Exhibit "A" to Plaintiff's Complaint, Record 1). Appellants paid Appellee a security deposit in the amount of One Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($ 1,200.00) upon execution of the Lease. (See Exhibit "A" to Plaintiff's Complaint, Record 1).

On or about October 1, 1997, Appellants assigned the Lease to Wilson and Buckeye Chiropractic, LLC ("Buckeye Chiropractic"), in conjunction with their purchase of certain assets of Tri State Chiropractic, located on the leased premises. (Affidavit of Michael Carano, Record 25). This assignment took place approximately six months prior to the expiration of the lease, after which all rental payments to Appellee were made by Wilson or his corporation. Appellees do not complain about any payments made prior to the expiration of the lease. (See Plaintiff's Complaint).

On or about March 31, 1998, the Legse expired and Appellants had no further obligations to Appellee. (Answer, Counterclaim and Cross Claim of Defendant. Affidavit of Michael Carano). However, despite demand by Appellants, Appellee failed to return the security deposit. (Answer, Counterclaim and Cross Claim of Defendant, Affidavit of Michael Carano). Appellants were damaged in excess of One Thousand Two Hundred Dollars ($ 1,200.00) plus interest, as a result of Appellee's failure to return the security deposit. (Answer, Counterclaim, and Cross Claim of Defendant).

Although the Lease expired on or about March 31, 1999, and Appellants had no further obligations under the Lease, the Franklin County Municipal Court granted judgment for Appellee in the amount of $ 2,641.79 and attorney's fees of $ 1,345.60. The Municipal Court's calculations included a credit in the amount of $ 1,200.00 for Appellant's security deposit. (See Entry).

This is Appellant Carano and TSC's brief requesting that the decision of the Franklin County Municipal Court be reversed and that this matter be remanded to the Municipal for further proceedings.

LAW AND ARGUMENT

ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 1

THE FRANKLIN COUNTY MUNICIPAL COURT COMMITTED REVERSIBLE ERROR IN GRANTING SUMMARY JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF THE APPELLEE AGAINST APPELLANTS TRI STATE CHIROPRACTIC AND MICHAEL CARANO.

A. STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT.

Appellee is not entitled to summary judgment because there remain genuine issues of material fact to be litigated in this matter. In particular, the question of whether Appellee had knowledge of Wilson's control of the leased premises is an important element of Appellants' claims and a genuine issue of material fact that remains to be litigated in this matter. Ohio Civil Rule 56(C) provides that summary judgment shall be rendered only when it is shown "that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law...." Ohio Civ.R. 56(C). In interpreting this essential standard, the Supreme Court of Ohio has stated that

"...a party seeking summary judgment, on the ground that the nonmoving party cannot prove its case, bears the initial burden of informing that trial court of the basis for the motion, and identifying those portions of the record that demonstrate the absence of a genuine issue of fact on the essential element(s) of the nonmoving party's claims." Vahila v. Hall, 77 Ohio St. 3d 421, 429 (1997), quoting Dresher v. Burt, 75 Ohio St. 3d 280, 293 (1996).

In the instant case, the moving party has failed to meet this crucial standard, and the lower court applied the wrong standard in granting summary judgment in favor of Appellee.

B. APPELLEE FAILED TO MEET ITS BURDEN UNDER CIVIL RULE 56.

While Appellee's Motion for Summary Judgment does recite numerous alleged facts, it does not adequately "identify those portions of the record that demonstrate the absence of a genuine issue of fact on the essential element(s) of the nonmoving party's claims," as the standard requires. Specifically, Appellee has failed to indicate any portion of the record that sufficiently demonstrates that Appellees were unaware that Wilson had acquired the leased premises. In fact, Appellees offer the Affidavit of Ruth Gross which states that "she became aware that Dr. Todd Wilson had entered into possession of the subject premises." (See Affidavit of Ruth Gross, Record 24). Because Appellee's knowledge of Wilson's possession of the property is an essential element of the Appellants' claims, Appellee's Motion for Summary Judgment must demonstrate an absence of a genuine issue of fact with respect to this element, and Appellee's motion wholly fails to satisfy this requirement. In fact, Appellee's motion does not even allege that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact. (See Appellee's motion for Summary Judgment, Record 24).

Appellee's Response to the Defendants' Memorandum Contra Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment does little to rectify this inadequacy. The Response states that "Defendants...offer this Court absolutely no evidence that even alleges that Plaintiff was aware of the alleged asset purchase contract between the parties other than the fact that Plaintiff included Dr. Wilson in the lawsuit." (See Plaintiff's Response, p. 2). However, this is not the applicable standard under Ohio law. The Ohio Supreme Court has stated that

"[t]he moving party cannot discharge its initial burden under Civ.R. 56 simply by making a conclusory assertion that the nonmoving party has no evidence to prove its case. Rather, the moving party must be able to specifically point to some evidence...which affirmatively demonstrates that the nonmoving party has no evidence to support the nonmoving party's claims." (Emphasis added). Vahila v. Hall, 77 Ohio St. 3d 421, 429 (1997), quoting Dresher v. Burt, 75 Ohio St. 3d 280, 293 (1996).

Appellee has failed to indicate any portion of the record that conclusively demonstrates that Appellants have no evidence to support their claims. Thus, Appellee has failed to meet its burden under Ohio Civil Rule 56(C), and summary judgment granted on the basis of such a motion is reversible error.

Further, it appears that the Municipal Court did not apply the correct standard in its review of Plaintiff's Motion and Defendants' Memorandum Contra. The Ohio Supreme Court has required that "[t]rial courts should award summary judgment with caution, being careful to resolve doubts and construe evidence in favor of the non-moving party…" (Emphasis added). Leibreich v. A.J. Refrigeration, Inc., 67 Ohio St. 266, 269 (1993), see also Wellco Industries, Inc. v. Applied Cos., 67 Ohio St. 344 (1993). In the instant case, the trial court had before it evidence that Appellee had accepted rental payments from Wilson for six months prior to the expiration of the lease, and for several months after the lease expired. (See Defendants' Memorandum Contra). The trial court was also aware that Ruth Gross knew that Wilson had entered into possession of the leased premises (See Affidavit of Ruth Gross, Record 24). The foregoing demonstrates that, had this evidence been construed in favor of the Appellants, it would have been determined that a genuine issue of material fact remained to be litigated in this matter. Therefore, summary judgment was inappropriately granted in favor of the Appellees and should be reversed and remanded.

C. APPELLEE WAIVED ITS RIGHT TO COLLECT LEASE PAYMENTS FROM APPELLANTS TSC AND CARANO AFTER THE EXPIRATION OF THE LEASE.

On or about October 1, 1997, Appellant TSC assigned the lease to Wilson and Buckeye Chiropractic. The Appellee in this case failed to object in a timely manner to the alleged breach of the lease agreement and consequently waived the alleged breach Appellee did not attempt to assert the alleged "surrender" provision against Appellants until almost a year after it began accepting lease payments from Wilson instead of Appellants. Even assuming that the Appellee is correct in its assertion that it had no idea that Wilson had taken over the premises, Appellee still waited a full five months after the expiration of the lease before asserting any "surrender" provision against Appellants. In its failing to assert its alleged claims in a timely manner, Appellee has waived any right to assert them now.

This point of law was explained in Finkbeiner v. Lutz, 44 Ohio App. 2d 223 (1975). In this case, a lessee had allowed a family corporation to take over the premises leased from lessor in violation of a lease provision which prohibited assignment of the leasehold without lessor's written consent. No express notice of the assignment was provided to the lessor. When the corporation failed to make timely payments, the lessor refused to renew the lease and brought an action for forcible entry and detainer. The lessee raised a number of defenses including the equitable principles of waiver and estoppel. After the case had been tried to a jury, the trial court determined that the disposition of the case was strictly a matter of law. The jury was dismissed and the trial court found in favor of the lessee. Id.

On appeal, the First District Court of Appeals affirmed the decision of the trial court, holding that the lessor was estopped from asserting any rights against the lessee under the provisions of the lease. The court stated that "...by virtue of having received corporate checks...in payment of rent and taxes, the lessors were clearly put on notice that an assignment had been made of the rights of the leasehold, in contravention to the specific language of the agreement. We hold that the lessor is now estopped to object to such assignment after having knowingly permitted it to continue...." Id. at 227.

As in Finkbeiner, the Appellee in the case at hand began receiving checks from Wilson or his corporation rather than Appellant, TSC and Carano six months prior to the expiration of the lease, and was therefore on notice that an assignment of the lease had been made. The Appellee failed to make a timely objection to any alleged breach of the lease and consequently has waived any right to do so.

Appellee has asserted the "unless Defendants can produce evidence that [the lease] was rescinded or modified in writing by Plaintiff, then its terms are binding upon the parties. No claims of oral discussions and no writings to which Plaintiff was not a party can effect [sic] this contract." (See Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 4). Appellee's reliance on the parole evidence rule is misplaced. The Appellants do not allege that the lease itself has been affected by any discussions or writings. Rather, the Appellants assert that by failing to make a timely objection to any alleged breach of the lease, Appellee has waived its right to do so. The court of Finkbeiner held that "where...a course of conduct is engaged in between the parties to a lease, which is contrary to the specific provisions within the lease, such conduct will speak for itself, and the parties will be estopped from denying that conduct and its immediate and logical consequences." Id. at 228. In the instant case, Appellee was on notice and acquiesced to the assignment of the premises despite the provisions of the lease, and has consequently waived any right to assert a claim objecting to the assignment or its consequences. Thus, Appellee was not entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law and the trial court committed reversible error when it granted summary judgment in Appellee's favor.

In addition, Appellee has waived its right to assert any alleged claims under the terms of the lease because Appellee itself has failed to abide by the terms of the lease Appellee's Complaint alleges that, following the expiration of the lease, the lease was renewed on a month to month basis. Appellee's Motion for Summary Judgment even admits that although the Lease provides for holding-over on a day-to-day basis. Appellee instead decided to continue to charge Appellants on a monthly basis. (Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment, Record 24, p. 2). However, the lease on which Appellee relies for its claims against Appellants provides that renewal can only take place when Tenant has expressed a desire to renew the lease in writing, six months before the expiration of the lease, and the renewal will be for a period of five years. (See Exhibit "A" to Plaintiff's Complaint, p. 3). Thus, Appellee has failed to abide by the terms of the lease on which it relies, as admitted in Appellee's Motion for Summary Judgment. Appellee should not be granted summary judgment based upon the terms of a document which Appellee itself has disregarded. Therefore, by failing to abide by the terms of the lease Appellee has waived its right to assert any claim under the lease provisions, and the trial court committed reversible error when it granted summary judgment in Appellee's favor.

D. APPELLEES ARE NOT ENTITLED TO ATTORNEYS FEES.

Even if this Court determines that summary judgment was appropriate in this case, the Appellants contend that the trial court committed reversible error in granting attorney's fees to the Appellee under the provisions of the lease. The lease provision pertaining to attorney's fees states that, in the event of default, "Tenant shall be responsible for Landlord's reasonable attorney's fees." (See Exhibit "A" of Plaintiff's Complaint, p. 20). This provision is vague and ambiguous, as it does not define "reasonable attorney's fees," and is therefore unenforceable.

CONCLUSION

For the foregoing reasons, Appellants respectfully request that the Tenth District Court of Appeals reverse the decision of the Franklin County Municipal Court and remand this Case for further proceedings.

Respectfully Submitted,

ZACKS LAW GROUP LLC

/s/ [Signature]

James R. Billings (Reg. No. 0061836)

1251 East Broad Street

Columbus, Ohio 43205

(614) 253-2001

FAX (614) 253-2002

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

The undersigned hereby certifies that a true copy of the foregoing CORRECTED BRIEF OF APPELLANT was served upon Marlene Brisk, P.O. Box 30863, Gahanna, Ohio 43230 by regular U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, this 5th day of January, 2000.

/s/ [Signature]

James R. Billings (Reg. No. 0061836)

Table1 (Return to related document text)

ASSIGNMENTS OF ERROR

1

ISSUES PRESENTED FOR REVIEW

2

STATEMENT OF THE CASE

3

STATEMENT OF THE FACTS

5

LAW AND ARGUMENT

6

Assignment of Error No. 1:

1

CONCLUSION

12

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

13

Table1 (Return to related document text)
