LEXSEE 2004 OHIO 2671

DAVID VIRDE, Appellant v. WILLIAM STALNAKER, Appellee

C.A. No. 21729

COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO, NINTH APPELLATE DISTRICT, SUMMIT

CoUNTY

2004 Ohio 2671; 2004 Ohio App.

LEXIS 2364

May 26, 2004, Decided

PRIOR HISTORY: [**i] APPEAL FROM

JUDGMENT ENTERED IN THE COURT OF

COMMON PLEAS COUNTY OF SUMMIT, OHIO.

CASE No.

CV 2002-08-4851.

DISPOSITION: Judgment reversed in part and sustained in part; cause remanded.

COUNSEL: BRENT L. ENGLISH, Attorney at Law,

Cleveland, Ohio, for Appellant

MATTHEW J. CARTY, Attorney at Law, Akron, Ohio, for Appellee.

JUDGES: WILLIAM R. BAIRD, Judge. WHITMORE,

P. J., BATCHELDER, J., CONCUR.

OPINION BY: WILLIAM R. BAIRD

OPINION: DECISION AND JOURNAL ENTRY

This cause was heard upon the record in the trial court.

Each error assigned has been reviewed and the following disposition is made:

BAIRD, Judge.

[*P] Appellant, David Virde, appeals a grant of summary judgment to William Stainaker entered by the

Summit County Court of Common Pleas. We reverse and remand.

[*P2]) On August 29, 2002, Virde filed a complaint

with the Summit County Court of Common Pleas naming

Stalnaker as the defendant. In the complaint, Virde

alleges the following: Virde stated that his wife, Karen

and her friend, Michelle Dillar, entered into a lease

agreement with Stalnaker, and at the time of the lease

agreement, Virde was staying at Edwin Shaw

Rehabilitation Hospital "following the amputation of

 his right foot and leg, approximately eight inches

below the knee." Shortly after the lease was signed, Virde

moved into the premises with his wife and Dillar, "with

the consent of" Stalnaker, and Stalnaker "knew, or should

have known, that the handrail at the back steps to the

premises was in serious disrepair[.]" The complaint

further alleges that "the tenants asked Stainaker to fix and

repair the guardrail, but he failed and refused to do so."

Virde claims that while he "was carefully coming down

the stairs into the backyard" the handrail loosened and he

"fell and seriously injured himself. Virde states that his

injuries and losses resulted from Stalnaker's negligent

failure to properly maintain or repair the handrail,

Stalnaker created a nuisance or dangerous condition

knowing that Virde would likely be injured, and

Stalnaker failed to warn. nl Lastly, Virde alleged that

Stalnaker's failure to repair the railing violated RC.

5321.04 and is, therefore, negligence per se

n1 The complaint also contains allegations of

housing discrimination, retaliatory eviction, and

interference with fair housing rights. The trial

court found for Stalnaker on these counts;

however, the trial court's disposition of these

counts is not part of this appeal.

Page 2

2004 Ohio 2671, *P2; 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 2364, **3

[*P3] On July 7, 2003, Stalnaker filed notice of filing the following deposition transcripts; the depositions of David Virde, taken on May 10 and 14, 2003; that of

Michelle Dillar, taken on October 18, 2001; and, that of

Karen Virde Johnson, taken on May 17, 2003

Additionally, on the same date, Stalnaker filed a motion for summary judgment. The trial court issued a ruling granting the motion on August 6, 2003, stating that Virde had not responded to the motion. n2

n2 Virde actually did file a response on August 6, 2003, the same day the trial court released its ruling.

[*P4] Virde appealed, raising one assignment of

Error.

IL.

Assignment of Error

"THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING

STALNAKER'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY

JUDGMENT AS THE RECORD SHOWS THERE

WERE GENUINE ISSUES OF MATERIAL FACT IN

DISPUTE AND THAT STALNAKER WAS NOT

ENTITLED TO JUDGMENT AS A MATTER OF

LAW."

[*P5] Virde argues that the trial court's ruling that

Virde was a trespasser on Stalnaker's property is "utterly unwarranted ] and is clearly contradicted by the evidence" because Virde was an authorized guest of the tenants, "was lawfully on the premises," and Stalnaker was aware he lived there. Moreover, Virde claims that there was a genuine issue of material fact, as evidence by the deposition testimony, regarding Virde's actual status as a trespasser, a licensee, or an invitee. Virde then argues that "the evidence clearly established Virde was an invitee." Additionally, Virde claims, as an invitee,

Stalnaker owed him a duty and "the fact that Virde knew the railing was 'loose' does not mean he was aware it would give way or that Stalnaker was absolved of all liability for anything that thereafter happened[.]" Lastly

Virde urges that Stalnaker's failure to repair is negligence per se because Stalnaker violated See. 5321.04 of the

Landlords and Tenants Act of 1974.

[*P6) We begin by noting that an appellate court

reviews an award of summary judgment de novo. Grafton

v. Ohio Edison Co. (1996), 77 Ohio St. 3d 102, 105, 1996

Ohio 336, 671 N.E.2d 241. We apply the same standard

as the trial court, viewing the facts in the case in the light

most favorable to the non-moving party and resolving

any doubt in favor of the non-moving party. Vioek

v_ Stowe-Woodward Co. (1983), 13 Ohio App. 3d 7, 12,

13 Ohio B. 8, 467 N.E.2d 1378.

[*P7] Pursuant to Civil Rule 56(C), summary

judgment is proper if:

"(1) No genuine issue as to any material fact remains

to be litigated; (2) the moving party is entitled to

judgment as a matter of law; and (3) it appears from the

evidence that reasonable minds can come to but one

conclusion, and viewing such evidence most strongly in

favor of the party against whom the motion for summary

judgment is made, that conclusion is adverse to that

party." Temple v. Wean United, Inc. (1977), 50 Ohio St.

2d 317, 327, 364 N.E. 2d 267.

[*P8] To prevail on a motion for summary

judgment, the party moving for summary judgment bears

the initial burden of informing the trial court of the basis

for the motion and pointing to parts of the record that

show the absence of a genuine issue of material fact.

Dresher v. Burt (1996), 75 Ohio St. 3d 280, 293-294,

1996 Ohio 107, 662 N.E.2d 264. Where the non-moving

party would have the burden of proving a number of

elements in order to prevail at trial, the party moving for

summary judgment may point to evidence that the

non-moving party cannot possibly prevail on an

essential element of the claim. See, e.g., Sfvison v

Goodvear Tire & Rubber Co. (1997), 80 Ohio St. 3d 498,

499, 1997 Ohio 321, 687 N.E.2d 458. In that case, the

moving party then "bears the initial burden of

demonstrating that there are no genuine issues of material

fact concerning an essential element of the opponent's

case." Dresher, 75 Ohio St. 3d at 292. The burden would

then shift to the non-moving party to show that there is a

genuine issue of material fact as to that element. /d. at

293.

[*P9] The Ohio Supreme Court has explained the

summary judgment burden as follows:

"The movant must be able to point to evidentiary

materials of the type listed in Civ.R. 56(C) that a court is

to consider in rendering summary judgment. The

evidentiary materials listed in Civ.R. 56(C) include 'the

Page 3

2004 Ohio 2671, *P9; 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 2364, **6

pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, written admissions, affidavits, transcripts of evidence in the pending case, and written stipulations of fact, if any.

These evidentiary materials must show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact, and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. While the movant is not necessarily obligated to place any of these evidentiary materials in the record, the evidence must be in the record or the motion cannot succeed." 7d. at 292-293.

[*P10] Only after the movant satisfies the initial Dresher burden, must the nonmoving party then present evidence that some issue of material fact remains for the trial court to resolve. Id at 294. "It is basic that regardless of who may have the burden of proof at trial, the burden is on the party moving for summary judgment to establish that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of aw. Horizon Savings v. Wootton (1991), 73 Ohio App.

3d 501, 504, 597 N.E. 2d 1150.

[*P11l] In order to prevail on his claim, Virde was required to prove that the defendant owed a duty of care to him, that the defendant breached that duty, and that the breach of the duty proximately caused his injury.

Chambers v. St. Mary's School (1998), 82 Ohio St. 3d

563, 565, 1998 Ohio 184, 697 N.E.2d 198. However, assuming that Stalnaker had met his burden, Virde could defeat summary judgment by showing that there were still genuine issues of material fact to be resolved. See

Dresher, 75 Ohio St. 3d at 292-293. |**8\

[*P12] We first address the allegation of negligence per se. In his complaint, Virde alleges that Stalnaker's failure to repair the railing is negligence per se because

Stalnaker violated a duty to repair codified at R.C.

5321.04:

"(A)

A landlord who is a party to a rental agreement shall do all of the following:

1 oke se ok

"(2) Make all repairs and do whatever is reasonably necessary to put and keep the premises in a fit and habitable condition[.]"

[*P13] "In landowner liability cases, the duty of care owed depends upon the status of the plaintiff, as

'Ohio adheres to the common-law classifications of

invitee, licensee, and trespasser." Qualchoice, Inc. v

Yost Constr. Co., Inc. (Jan. 5, 2000), 9th Dist. No.

98CA00O7224, 2000 Ohio App.

LEXIS 8, at 10, quoting

Gladon v. Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Auth,

(1996), 75 Ohio St. 3d 312, 315, 1996 Ohio 137, 662

N.E.2d 287. However, a duty imposed by statute is an

exception to the common law; R.C. 5327.04 clearly

imposes upon landlords a duty to repair. Schocfleld v.

Beulah Road, Inc. (Aug. 26, 1999), 10th Dist. No

9I8AP-1475, 1999 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3926, citing

Shroades v. Rental Homes (1981), 68 Ohio St. 2d 20, 427

N.E.2d 774. "A violation of a statute that sets forth

specific duties constitutes negligence per se." Schoefield,

 supra.

A landowner owes the same duties to persons

lawfully upon the leased premises as the landlord owes to

the tenant. Shump v. First Continental-Robinwood Assoc.

(1994), 71 Ohio St. 3d 414, 420, 1994 Ohio 427, 644

N.E.2d 291.

[*P14] In addressing the count of negligence per se,

Stalnaker states in the motion for summary judgment

only that the doctrine doesn't apply to Virde because

Virde was not a tenant and the statute applies only to a

tenant. Virde argues in reply that the holding of Schump

required the trial court to extend the negligence per se

doctrine to him. We agree that Shump controls.

A

landlord is liable under Shump if: (1) the plaintiff was

within the class of persons intended to be protected by the

statute; (2) the harm suffered was the type of harm

against which the statute was intended to guard; (3) the

plaintiff establishes proximate cause; and (4) the plaintiff

show that the landlord received notice of the defective

condition of the rental premises, that the landlord knew of

the defect, or that the tenant had made reasonable, but

unsuccessful, attempts ) to notify the landlord.

Primes v. Milbry (Nov. 19, 1997), 9th Dist. No 18236,

1997 Ohio App.

LEXIS 5180, at 4. Stalnaker, in order to

meet his burden under Civ.R. 56, must demonstrate,

through the evidence, that he had no notice of the

defective condition of the rental premises and that he did

not know of the defect. See 1997 Ohio App.

LEXIS 5180,

at 6-7. Stainaker submitted deposition testimony from

Dillar wherein she stated that the house was well

maintained and she did not report to Stalnaker that repairs

were required. Likewise Karen Virde stated in her

deposition that she did not contact Stainaker about the

loose rail; however,

"It was either [Dillar or Virde] that either told him or

called the office. *** But I do know that somebody was

Page 4

2004 Ohio 2671, *P 14; 2004 Ohio App. LEXIS 2364, ** 10

notified that the railing - the back railing was loose. ***

[Dillar or Virde] told me that." In Virde's deposition, he was asked if "during the time that you stayed there, did you request that Mr. Stalnaker do any type of repair work to the property?" He was also asked, "So you never at any time talked to [Stalnaker] or any of his staff about doing anything at that unit?" Virde answered in the negative to both questions. However, Virde also stated that he told

Stalnaker about the loose railing while the two men were inspecting the rental unit next door, and he later observed Stainaker inspecting the railing; Virde claims that at that time, Stalnaker touched the railing and saw it move. Also in his deposition, Virde stated that the first day he was at the rental unit, he saw that the railing was loose and "that's why two or three days after that is when I saw Mr. Stalnaker and told him." n3

n3 In Primes, supra, we declined to reach the question whether a social guest who may not be in the same position as a tenant to notify the landlord of a defect is required to do so to prove negligence per se. In this case we have a social guest who testified under oath that he did accomplish the notification; therefore, this case also does not reach the question of any notification requirements of the social guest who is not in a position to notify the landlord.

[*P15] In his motion for summary judgment,

Stailnaker failed to aver that he did not have knowledge regarding the need to repair the railing.

Furthermore, the depositions Stalnaker submitted to the trial court demonstrate conflicting testimony regarding his knowledge of the need for repair. Summary judgment is inappropriate where the evidentiary materials conflict.

Primes, supra, 1997 Ohio App.

LEXIS 5180, at 5. In a claim of negligence per se for violation of R.C. 5321.04,

Stalnaker's knowledge of the need to repair the railing is an issue of material fact; in order for Stalnaker to prevail on summary judgment, he must show that no genuine issue of material fact exists. He has failed to produce evidence that demonstrates his lack of knowledge and, therefore, the grant of summary judgment was inappropriate on the negligence per se

Furthermore, the trial court determined that the evidence presented with the motion for summary judgment indicated that Virde was not lawfully upon the premises in that his common law status was that of a trespasser.

claim.

However, the evidence presented to the trial court was

contradictory; Virde claimed that Stalnaker knew Virde

was living on the premises, yet there was also deposition

testimony from Dillar to the contrary. Johnson also

testified that she did not tell Stalnaker that Virde

was living there and she is not sure how Stalnaker

eventually came up the knowledge that Virde was in

residence. The contradictory accounts preclude summary

judgment on the issue of whether Virde was legally upon

the premises and his status remains a genuine issue of

material fact; therefore summary

inappropriate on this issue.

judgment was

[*P16] The trial court further declared that even if

Virde's status was that of an invitee, his common law

claim would fail. Virde averred in his deposition that he

knew that the railing was loose from the first time he was

on the property, several months before his alleged

accident, and no one had asked Stalnaker to repair the

railing. Where an invitee admits he had actual prior

knowledge of a defect, he "traverses it at his peril." Raffo

v Losantiville Country Club (1973), 34 Ohio St. 2d 1, 4,

295 NE.2d 202. We find no error in this portion of the

trial court's grant of summary judgment and leave it

undisturbed. The grant of summary judgment on the

common law claim was appropriate.

[*P17] This assignment of error is sustained in part

and overruled in part.

HT.

[*P18]) Virde's assignment of error is sustained

 in part and overruled in part. The judgment of the

Summit County Court of Appeals is reversed in part,

affirmed in part, and the cause remanded.

Judgment reversed in part, sustained in part, and the

cause remanded.

WILLIAM R. BAIRD, Judge.

FOR THE COURT

WHITMORE, P. J.

BATCHELDER, J.

CONCUR

Page 1

LEXSEE 1987 OHIO APP. LEXIS 8541, AT 6

Richard Mowery, Plaintiff-Appellant, v. Douglas D. McCracken dba Pleasant View Recreation, Defendant-Appellee

No. 5-85-33

Court of Appeals of Ohio, Third Appellate District, Hancock County

1987 Ohio App.

LEXIS 8541

August 31, 1987, Decided

PRIOR HISTORY:

Common Pleas Court.

Civil appeals from

DISPOSITION: Judgment affirmed.

COUNSEL: MESSRS. WILLIAMS, JILEK &

LAFFERTY, MR. MICHAEL F. JILEK, SR., For

Appellant.

MESSRS. ROBISON, CURPHEY & O'CONNELL, MR.

JACK ZOUHARY, For Appellee.

JUDGES: SHAW, J.; COLE, P.J., and EVANS, J, concur.

OPINION BY: SHAW

OPINION OPINION

SHAW, J. This is an appeal from a decision of the

Common Pleas Court of Hancock County, Ohio granting summary judgment in favor of Defendant-Appellee, owner of a recreational campground, and against

Plaintiff-Appellant, who was injured while playing basketball at an outdoor court located in the campground.

The record (affidavits and depositions) reflects that at all times pertinent to this case, Defendant Douglas

McCracken was the owner and manager of a recreational campground doing business as Pleasant View Recreation in Van Buren, Ohio. In May of 1983, Plaintiff Richard

Mowery, an eighteen-year-old high school graduate, together with his family, brought a trailer to the

campground where they all planned to spend the summer.

On the "sunny" afternoon of May 27, 1983, Plaintiff and

some companions proceeded to play basketball at an

outdoor court with an asphalt or concrete surface

located at the center of the campground next to a

swimming area and tennis courts.

The record further reflects that there was a "bright

yellow" nylon rope strung along the western edge of the

basketball court running behind the backboard, although

the precise location and height of the rope is in some

dispute. The rope had apparently been placed at that

location by a former customer of the campground during

the previous year, with the knowledge and permission of

Defendant, in order to keep bicycles from cutting across

the grassy areas surrounding the basketball court. In any

event, after approximately one hour of play, Plaintiff

tripped on the rope while chasing the ball out of bounds

and was injured when he landed on his back in the grass

surrounding the playing surface.

In his deposition, Plaintiff described the rope as

running along the very edge of the playing surface of the

court at a height of only four to six inches from the

ground. However, according to Defendant's deposition

and supporting affidavits from two of the other basketball

players, the rope was located "several feet" behind the

backboard, away from the playing surface and at a height

of four to five feet, sagging to "possibly" three feet

at its lowest point. Nevertheless, there is no dispute that

the rope was clearly visible and that all of the players,

including Plaintiff were fully aware of the rope prior to

commencing play.

Additionally, Plaintiff acknowledged that prior to

commencing their play, one of the other players had

Page 2

1987 Ohio App. LEXIS 8541, *3

actually raised the rope to approximately waist high but upon discussion lowered the rope again to a height of four to six inches at the insistence of Plaintiff, Plaintiff further acknowledged that during the hour of play preceding his own injury at least one other player had also tripped on the rope but without injury.

On February 25, 1985, Plaintiff filed suit in the

Common Pleas Court of Hancock County alleging

Defendant negligently "permitted a dangerous condition to exist at the border of a basketball court on their premises and such dangerous condition caused the

Plaintiff to fall and severely injure himself." Depositions were taken of both parties on June 25, 1985. On October

15, 1985 Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment. Placing considerable emphasis upon Plaintiff's awareness of the rope and participation in its placement, the trial court found that Plaintiff's injuries could not be attributed to any negligence on the part of the

Defendant and granted summary judgment in favor of

Defendant on November 1, 1985

Plaintiff now asserts three assignments of error as follows:

"I

THE TRIAL COURT ERRED BY

WITHDRAWING FROM THE JURY THE

DETERMINATION AND APPORTIONMENT OF THE

NEGLIGENCE AND CAUSAL CONTRIBUTION

BETWEEN THE PARTIES.

"IL. THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN GRANTING

DEFENDANT'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

A8 A JURY COULD REASONABLY CONCLUDE THAT

DEFENDANT BREACHED HIS STATUTORY DUTY AS

LANDLORD TO MAINTAIN THE COMMON AREAS OF

HIS PROPERTY IN A SAFE CONDITION; AND SUCH

BREACH OF DUTY PROXIMATELY RESULTED IN

PLAINTIFF'S INJURIES,

"IIL. THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN ITS ANALYSIS

OF THE LEGAL ARGUMENTS PROPOUNDED BY

PLAINTIFF BY FAILING TO ADDRESS THE

QUESTION OF THE PRESENCE OF AN "UNLAWFUL

NUISANCE" ON DEFENDANT'S PROPERTY WHICH

CAUSED PLAINTIFF'S INJURIES: AND BY

NEGLECTING TO PRESERVE FOR JURY

DETERMINATION THE QUESTION OF WHETHER

THE CONDITION CONSTITUTED AN "UNLAWFUL

NUISANCE."

We must resolve two issues in order to decide this

appeal: (1) under what circumstances may summary

judgment be granted in a case governed by the

comparative negligence provisions of R.C. 2375.19; and

(2) whether those circumstances are present in the case

before us. Based upon our analysis of these issues, it is

appropriate to address all three assignments of error

together.

(1)

In Harless v. Willis Day Warehousing Co. (1978), 54

Ohio St. 2d 64, the Supreme Court of Ohio held:

"The appositeness of rendering a summary judgment

hinges upon the tripartite demonstration: (1) that there is

no genuine issue as to any material fact; (2) that the

moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law;

and (3) that reasonable minds can come to but one

conclusion, and that conclusion is adverse to the party

against whom the motion for summary judgment is made,

who is entitled to have the evidence construed most

strongly in his favor." Id. at 66.

In requesting summary judgment, the moving party has

the burden of proving that no geniune issue of fact

remains for trial. Id. However, once the moving party has

met its burden, the opposing party must take affirmative

action to defeat the motion by showing a genuine issue

for trial. Benjamin v. Deffet Rentals (1981), 66 Ohio St.

2d 86.

To defeat a motion for summary judgment filed

by a defendant in a negligence action it has been held that

the plaintiff must "* identify a duty, or duties, owed

him by the defendant, and the evidence must be

sufficient, considered most favorably to the plaintiff, to

allow reasonable minds to infer that a specific duty was

breached, that the breach of duty was the proximate cause

of plaintiff's injury, and that plaintiff was injured." Patete

v. Benko (1986), 29 Ohio App. 3d 325, 327, quoting

Keister v. Park Centre Lanes (1981), 3 Ohio App. 3d 19,

syllabus, and citing also Wellman v. East Ohio Gas Co

(1953), 160 Ohio St. 103

In Burgard v. Eff (1965), 1 Ohio App. 2d 483, the

Court of Appeals for Lucas County held that a common

pleas court may not enter summary judgment on behalf of

defendants in a negligence case "* unless it could

determine from the documents *** [which it may

consider on] the hearing of such motion, as a matter of

Page 3

1987 Ohio App. LEXIS 8541, *6

law, that one of three things existed, specifically, either

(1) that the defendants were free of negligence, or (2) if defendants were negligent, that their negligence was not the proximate cause of plaintiff's injury, or (3) that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence." /d. af

487. (Emphasis included).

In a decision which might be construed as only slightly updating the criteria of Burgard v. Eff, supra, to accommodate the comparative negligence provisions of

R.C.

2315.19, enacted in 1980, the Court of Appeals for

Cuyahoga County has held that summary judgment may be granted to defendants in a negligence suit where, after construing the undisputed evidence most strongly in favor of plaintiff, a reasonable person could only conclude that the contributory negligence of the plaintiff was greater than the combined negligence of the defendants. Mitchell v. Ross (1984), 14 Ohio App. 3d 75,

78. Moreover, it is clear that in making such a determination, conduct previously considered as assumption of the risk by the plaintiff, while no longer a complete defense, remains viable nevertheless as a

"species" of the plaintiff's contributory negligence to be weighed against the alleged negligence of the defendant pursuant to R.C. 2315.19. Mitchell v. Ross, supra, at 77;

Anderson v. Ceccardi (1983), 6 Ohio St. 3d 110, 113.

In view of the foregoing authority, we therefore hold that summary judgment is properly granted in favor of the defendant in a comparative negligence case where, pursuant to the criteria of Civ. R. 56(C), the court can make any one of the following determinations as a matter of law: either, (1) the defendant was not negligent; or (2) the defendant's negligence, if any, was not the proximate cause of plaintiff's injury (such as where the plaintiffs own negligence was the sole proximate cause of the injury) or (3) the plaintiff's own negligence, (considering factors of assumption of the risk, if any,) outweighed any negligence of the defendant under R.C.

2315.19.

(2)

Based upon the foregoing criteria and the evidence in the record, set forth earlier, we conclude that summary judgment was properly granted in the case before us.

Furthermore, we believe the trial court in this case could have properly made any one of the three determinations set forth above as a matter of law.

However, we find it unnecessary to address the issue

of Defendant's negligence for the reason that even

assuming the Defendant's negligence, we believe the trial

court could have granted summary judgment in favor of

the Defendant either on the grounds that the

Defendant's negligence, if any, was not the proximate

cause of the injury or on the ground that the Plaintiff's

own negligence (considering factors of assumption of the

risk), outweighed any negligence of the Defendant as a

matter of law. See Creveling v. Dayton Power & Light

Co. (Jan. 14, 1985), Logan App. No. 8-83-27, unreported

We further note that our conclusions also render it

unnecessary to discuss the issue of nuisance raised in the

third assignment of error for the identical reasons.

We reach the conclusions stated above only after

careful examination of a number of case decisions in

Ohio involving issues similar or even identical to the case

before us. We have previously stated that while the issue

of proximate cause is ordinarily a question of fact, in

those situations where reasonable minds could not differ

as to the of proximate because

circumstances clearly indicate an obvious cause and

effect relationship, the issue of proximate cause may be

determined as a matter of law. See Zawkocki v. Houtz

(1974), 40 Ohio App. 2d 118, 123, citing Ornella v

Robertson (1968), 14 Ohio St. 2d 144, 151. See,

also, 70 Ohio Jurisprudence 3d (1986) 419, Negligence,

Section 217.

matter cause

In Tatro v. Harp (Sept,. 26, 1984), Lucas C.P. No.

83-2422, unreported, the court addressed a number of

issues pertinent to the case before us. In that case,

plaintiff, a high school student, had chosen to ride on the

trunk of defendant's vehicle and was seriously injured

when, apparently realizing her precarious position in

view of an upcoming turn, she decided to slide off the car

to avoid being "flung." In a well reasoned decision

granting summary judgment in favor of the defendant, the

court first addressed the propriety of summary judgment

in a comparative negligence case:

As a general rule, summary judgment should not he

used in negligence particularly under

comparative negligence statutes which contemplate a

weighing or balancing of the negligence of each party

and a determination of the percentage of negligence

attributable to each. (Citations omitted). However, this is

not to say that summary judgment is never appropriate;

in rare cases it is permissable for a court to rule as a

matter of law that one party's negligence exceeds that of

actions,

Page 4

1987 Ohio App. LEXIS 8541, *10

the other. (Footnote and citations omitted). It is appropriate where the evidence of plaintiff's negligence is clear and the quantum so great, * and where the evidence is so conclusive that reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion. (Citation omitted).

"To hold that summary judgment is never appropriate in comparative negligence actions would be to force all such cases to trial even in plain and indisputable cases, defeating the purpose of the summary judgment procedure which is to terminate expensive and needless litigation where no genuine issue of fact exists.

(Citation omitted). It is this Court's opinion that such a result was surely not intended by the drafters of the comparative negligence statutes." Id. at 2-3.

Ruling in that case that reasonable minds could only conclude that the plaintiff's negligence was greater than the alleged negligence of the defendant, the court also addressed the issue of proximate cause:

"Notwithstanding the comparative negligence issues addressed above, and assuming that both the plaintiff and the defendant were negligent, this Court finds as a matter of law that it was plaintiff's negligence that was the proximate cause of her own injuries. the defendant's negligence can only consist of her knowingly permitting the plaintiff to ride on the trunk of the car because it is reasonably foreseeable that such a rider might slip off and be injured. However, the plain fact is that plaintiff did not slip off. Plaintiff, of her own volition, removed herself from the car and, therefore, the defendant's negligence could not have proximately caused plaintiff's injuries." Id. at 3-4

In this case, In Mitchell v. Ross, supra, the plaintiff ran across a freeway to retrieve an automobile part which had apparently fallen from his vehicle. On the return trip across the freeway, plaintiff simply misjudged the speed of the defendant's oncoming car which he had observed just prior to starting back across the road and was struck by the car. Acknowledging the merger of assumption of risk and the "last clear chance" doctrine as "species" of the plaintiffs contributory negligence under RC.

2315.19, the Court of Appeals for Cuyahoga County affirmed the trial court's entry of summary judgment for defendant with the following language:

"Construing the evidence most strongly in favor of the appellant, and assuming his testimony on deposition to be true, no reasonable person could find his

fault to be less than the alleged negligence of the

appellee. The appellant was aware that it was dangerous

and unlawful (footnote omitted) to cross a freeway on

foot. The appellant saw the appellee's

approaching, and crossed the lanes of travel in front of it.

There is no allegation that the appellee was driving

erratically or at an excessive rate of speed. * * *

vehicle

No genuine dispute of fact for trial is presented by

these facts. As a matter of law, the appellant's

contributory negligence outweighs that of the appellee;

and the appellant's suit is barred under R.C. 2315.19

Id. at 78.

The ability of the plaintiff to avoid a known peril

emphasized in Tatro, supra, and Mitchell, supra, has

consistently been an important factor in evaluating or

weighing contributory negligence for summary judgment

purposes. Thus, in Lazar v. Cleveland Elec. IHluminating

Co. (1975), 43 Ohio St. 2d 131, the Supreme Court of

Ohio held that "[a] determination that reasonable minds

could not differ as to whether an individual who comes in

contact with an uninsulated high tension electric wire

while working on a residential roof is

contributorily negligent requires evidence which clearly

shows that the plaintiff was or should have been

conscious of the existence of facts from which a

reasonably prudent man would have foreseen the

presence of such wires, or, having seen them, have

recognized their dangerous propensities." Id., syllabus.

(Emphasis added).

In Creveling v. Dayton Power & Light Co., supra,

we recently affirmed a summary judgment for defendants

in another electric wire case in which we also placed

considerable emphasis upon the fact that the plaintiff

proceeded to pick cherries with a metal ladder from trees

which he knew were located amidst electrical wires

which he had been warned were dangerous:

"As to any of these specifications dealing with the

possible concealment of the power equipment or the

failure to warn of its location or of its danger, it is

obvious that such negligence, if any, could not as a

matter of law be a proximate cause of the decedent's

death because the decedent was fully aware of the

existence, location, and possible concealment of the

wires, and equally aware of their dangerous character

and the inherent danger of picking cherries in their

vicinity." Id. at 11-12.

Page 5

1987 Ohio App. LEXIS 8541, *75

For other examples pertaining to contributory negligence as a question of law, see, also, 70 Ohio

Jurisprudence 3d (1986) 399, Negligence, Section 208.

Nor is the plaintiff's failure to avoid a known risk excused by the fact that he "did not think" or

"temporarily forgot." Thus, in Raflo v. Losantiville

Country Club (1973), 34 Ohio St. 2d 1, summary judgment in favor of defendant was affirmed when the

Ohio Supreme Court held that "[oJne who enters a building by traversing a step described as 'abnormally high,' is charged with knowledge of the presence of that abnormality upon exiting Id., syllabus. See, also,

Leighton v. Hower Corp. (1948), 149 Ohio St. 72, holding that where plaintiff's testimony discloses that she was "temporarily oblivious" of the presence of a step which a few minutes before she had used, it shows a want of due care on her part and does not dispel the inference of her own negligence. Id., syllabus. Quoting with obvious approval from the court of appeals opinion which reversed a trial court jury verdict for plaintiff and held that a directed verdict should have been granted for defendant, the Supreme Court of Ohio in Leighton v. Hower Corp., supra, set forth the following language from that opinion in its own decision affirming the court of appeals:

"* * * the Court of Appeals said:

'* * * this court is of the opinion that reasonable minds can conclude only that the appellee [plaintiff] was guilty of negligence which proximately caused her own injuries. She fell upon the very step which she had just previously stepped over and her statement that she was

'temporarily oblivious' of its under the circumstances shown here to exist, does not excuse in law her negligent conduct, without which she could not have been injured.'

existence,

"The foregoing statement does not refer to contributory negligence but to sole negligence of the plaintiff." Id. at 78.

Finally, our conclusions pertaining to the case before us are supported by case decisions involving assumption of the risk, which as we have noted, remains a viable factor in determining the weight of plaintiff's contributory negligence under R.C. 2315.19. In Benjamin v. Deffet

Rentals, supra, plaintiff, age fifteen, suffered a broken neck and permanent paralysis upon diving from the platform at the top of a seven foot sliding board at

a pool located in an apartment complex owned by

defendant. Plaintiff had initially jumped from the

platform and thereafter successfully executed a dive into

the pool. However, on the third attempt, his feet slipped

causing him to enter the pool at an angle too severe for

the depth which caused him to strike his head on the

bottom resulting in the injuries.

The Supreme Court of Ohio in Benjamin, supra,

upheld a summary judgment for defendant granted in the

trial court (but reversed in the court of appeals). In doing

so, the court placed considerable emphasis upon the

traditional elements of what was then the defense of

assumption of the risk:

"As stated in Wever v. Hicks (1967), 11 Ohio St. 2d

230, 234, '[t]he gist of the defense of assumption of the

risk is (1) consent or acquiescence in (2) an appreciated

or known (3) risk The practicalities of proof

require that the defense of assumption of the risk also be

applicable where the risk is so obvious that plaintiff must

have known and appreciated it.

"The central controversy in this cause concerns

appellee's knowledge and appreciation of the condition

which caused his injury." Id. at 89. (Emphasis

added).

The Benjamin court went on to set forth the

testimony in the record detailing the plaintiff's experience

with diving, the slide platform and the pool from which

reasonable minds could only conclude that plaintiff had

full knowledge and appreciation of the circumstances and

danger involved. In upholding the summary judgment on

this basis, the court emphasized a passage from one of its

earlier decisions which also involved a diving injury and

which we believe is especially appropriate to the case

before us:

"'While a child is required to exercise for his own

safety only such care as children of like age, education,

experience and ordinary prudence are accustomed to

exercise under the same or similar circumstances, yet it

may be assumed that a person of whatever age is able to

appreciate the obvious risks incident to any sport or

activity in which he may be able to engage with

intelligence and proficiency, and must act accordingly.'"

Id. at 88, quoting Englehardt v. Philipps (1939), 136

Ohio St. 73, syllabus. (Emphasis added).

Based upon the depositions and affidavits in the case

Page 6

1987 Ohio App. LEXIS 8541, *18

before us, it is undisputed that Plaintiff was fully aware of the rope. In addition, by his own admission, he directly participated in the final placement of the rope which was moved to a raised position by one of the other players in Plaintiff's presence and moved again to its lower original location at Plaintiff's insistence.

The trial court quite correctly placed considerable emphasis upon these factors in evaluating the causal relationship between Plaintiffs own conduct and his subsequent injury. However, a factor also of considerable significance to us in view of the various case decisions set forth above, is Plaintiffs testimony that he had observed at least one other player who also tripped on the rope during play prior to Plaintiffs own injury. Thus, while Plaintiff may have been momentarily "oblivious" to the rope or temporarily forgot its presence, as in some of the case authority cited above, our conclusion remains that reasonable minds could not differ that Plaintiff had a complete awareness of the circumstances as well as a full appreciation of the potential danger in tripping over the rope.

Therefore, under the above authority, including in particular the analysis of Benjamin v. Deffet Rentals

 supra, we find that even assuming negligence on the part of Defendant in allowing the rope to be placed near the basketball court, Plaintiffs own conduct in observing and adjusting the rope himself and continuing to play without change even after another player tripped on the rope, was either the sole proximate cause of his injury or at the very least, outweighed any negligence of the Defendant as a matter of law.

As we have already noted, our conclusions regarding proximate cause, are also dispositive of Plaintiff's argument that the trial court overlooked a theory of nuisance in granting summary judgment for Defendant.

First of all, we are not persuaded that the existence of the particular rope in question without more constitutes an unlawful nuisance under any conceivable construction.

Secondly, the conduct of Defendant, whether it be described as nuisance or negligence, must still meet the requirements of proximate cause to be actionable. Thus, even assuming Defendant's conduct to have constituted some kind of nuisance, we can still say that reasonable minds could not differ that the mere existence of that condition was not the proximate cause of Plaintiff's injury under ] the circumstances of this case.

Support for our conclusions regarding the nuisance

theory is found in the very cases cited by Plaintiff in

support of his argument. For example, Barnesville v.

Ward (1911), 6 Ohio St. 1, involved a ten to twelve inch

high wire placed by the city around median strips

between the sidewalk and the street which was in fact

found to be an actionable nuisance. However, in sharp

contrast to the case before us, the plaintiff in Barnesville

supra, (1) had no knowledge whatsoever of the existence

of the wire which was found to be in a location that no

one would expect to find a wire and (2) tripped on the

wire on an icy night which was apparently so dark that a

person even in the exercise of due care for his safety

could not have seen the wire. id af 9-70. Additionally,

the court even found that there was evidence to support

the inference that the city deliberately placed wires in

those locations not to prevent crossing but to trip and

punish those who attempted to do so at night. /d. at 10.

In Kocher v. Barberton (1942), 140 Ohio St. 240, the

city evidently widened a street leading up to a bridge

without widening the bridge so that a significant

part of the bridge structure ultimately obstructed a lane of

travel in the new street at the point where it passed over

the bridge. In the absence of signs or warning markers,

the plaintiff, failed to realize the new street narrowed

abruptly at the bridge and struck the bridge header which

was found to be an actionable nuisance. However, once

again, the plaintiff had never been on that portion of the

street since it had been widened and therefore had ncither

awareness nor appreciation of the situation and was thus

found to have no fault whatsoever in the injury. Id. at

243.

Finally, in Weidener v. Schottenstein (1960), 111

Ohio App. 376, defendant landlord maintained

underground garbage cans, the covers for which were

apparently flush with the surface of the ground and

deteriorated to the point where plaintiff fell through one

while walking over the cover at night. While plaintiff in

that case was apparently generally familiar with the

presence of the cans and covers there was no allegation

that plaintiff was specifically aware of their deteriorated

state which was found to be a latent defect creating a

factual issue not present in the case before us.

Thus, in every case cited by Plaintiff, there was

either total unawareness of the instrumentality which

caused the injury or if some awareness of the

instrumentality, no reason to appreciate or recognize its

dangerous potential. Thus, these cases simply can not be

Page 7 1987 Ohio App.

LEXIS 8541, *23

reconciled with the Plaintiffs extensive awareness and three of the plaintiff-appellant's assignments of error and appreciation of the circumstances in the present case, affirm the judgment of the trial court.

Pursuant to all of the foregoing authority and based COLE, P.J., and EVANS, J., concur. upon the record in this case, we therefore overrule all

Page |

LEXSEE 1996 OHIO APP. LEXIS 3

MARGARET SANDERS, Appellant v. BELLEVUE MANOR APARTMENTS,

Appellee

C.A. NO. 95CA006067

COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO, NINTH APPELLATE DISTRICT, LORAIN

COUNTY

1996 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3

January 3, 1996, Dated

NOTICE:

 THE LEXIS PAGINATION OF THIS

DOCUMENT IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE PENDING

RELEASE OF THE FINAL PUBLISHED VERSION.

PRIOR HISTORY: APPEAL FROM JUDGMENT

ENTERED IN THE COMMON PLEAS COURT.

COUNTY OF LORAIN, OHIO. CASE NO.

93CV111057.

DISPOSITION: Judgment affirmed.

COUNSEL: APPEARANCES:

ROBERT F. BELOVICH, Attorney for Appellant, 5638

Ridge Rd., Parma, OH 44129.

DARRELL A. BILANCINI, Attorney for Appellee, 595

West Broad St., Elyria, OH 44035

JUDGES: CLAIR E. DICKINSON, BAIRD, PJ.,

REECE, J., CONCUR

OPINION BY: CLAIR E. DICKINSON

OPINION

DECISION AND JOURNAL ENTRY Dated: January 3, 1996

This cause was heard upon the record in the trial court. Each error assigned has been reviewed and the

following disposition is made:

DICKINSON, Judge.

Plaintiff Margaret Sanders has appealed from an

order of the Lorain County Court of Common Pleas that

granted summary judgment to defendant Bellevue Manor

Apartments. Plaintiff was injured when she fell in the

parking lot of an apartment building owned by defendant.

She has argued that the trial court incorrectly granted

defendant's motion for summary judgment because: (1) it

applied an incorrect standard to determine what duty

defendant owed her; (2) defendant was not entitled

to judgment as a matter of law; and (3) the determination

of whether defendant acted willfully or wantonly was a

question of fact for the jury. This Court affirms the

judgment of the trial court because: (1) it applied the

correct standard to determine defendant's duty to

plaintiff; (2) defendant was entitled to judgment as a

matter of law; and (3) plaintiff failed to submit evidence

that would have been sufficient to permit a jury to find

that defendant had willfully or wantonly caused her

injuries.

I.

At approximately 10 p.m. on September 7, 1991,

plaintiff fell and was injured in the parking lot of an

apartment building owned by defendant. Plaintiff had

gone to the apartment building to visit her daughter, who

was a tenant. She had just gotten out of the passenger side

of an automobile and begun walking toward her

daughter's apartment, when she tripped over a "concrete

wheel stop." Plaintiff had previously visited her

daughter's apartment and acknowledged at her deposition

Page 2

1996 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3, *2

that she was aware that there were wheel stops at the edge of the parking lot in order to separate it from an adjacent sidewalk. The wheel stops were placed at the top of each parking space and were separated from each other by an open space of approximately three feet.

Plaintiff explained that, as she was walking toward her daughter's apartment, she was paying attention to her daughter, who had come out of her apartment to greet plaintiff. Plaintiff testified that it was dark in the parking lot and she thought she was walking between two of the wheel stops. Unfortunately, the automobile in which plaintiff had arrived at the apartment building had apparently not been parked in the center of a parking space and, as a result, the wheel stop at the top of that space protruded from under the front right of the car. She tripped over the wheel stop and was injured.

Plaintiff filed this action in the Lorain County Court of Common Pleas on September 7, 1993. On May 20,

1994, defendant moved for summary judgment. Plaintiff responded to defendant's motion on July 1, 1994, and the trial court granted it on February 7, 1995. Plaintiff timely appealed to this Court,

IL.

Plaintiff has assigned three errors on appeal. All three are challenges to the trial court's granting of defendant's motion for summary judgment.

In reviewing a trial court's grant of summary judgment, this Court applies the same standard a trial court is required to apply in the first instance: whether there were any genuine issues of material fact and whether the moving party was entitled to judgment as a matter on law. Parenti v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.

(1990), 66 Ohio App. 3d 826, 829, 586 N.E.2d 1121.

Plaintiff's first assignment of error is that the trial court applied an incorrect standard to determine what duty defendant owed her. In support of its motion for summary judgment in the trial court, defendant argued that plaintiff was a licensee on defendant's property at the time of her fall and that, accordingly, the extent of its duty was to refrain from engaging in willful or wanton conduct to her detriment. In her response to defendant's motion for summary judgment, plaintiff did not dispute her status as a licensee, but rather argued that defendant had engaged in willful or wanton conduct toward her:

"When all facts and inferences are considered, there are

genuine issues of fact regarding whether Defendant's

conduct was wanton or willful and whether it had, under

the circumstances, intent to injure or design to injure the

Plaintiff." Plaintiffs Brief in Opposition [*S] to Motion

for Summary Judgment at 6.

Following submission of plaintiffs response to

defendant's motion for summary judgment to the trial

court, but before the trial court ruled on defendant's

motion, the Ohio Supreme Court decided Shump v. First

Continental-Robinwood (1994), 71 Ohio St. 3d 414, 644

N.E.2d 291, in which it held that "[a] landlord owes the

same duties to persons lawfully upon the leased premises

as the landlord owes to the tenant." /d. at syllabus. In

granting defendant's motion for summary judgment, the

trial court specifically held that defendant "did not

commit any act of willful or wanton misconduct."

Plaintiff has argued to this Court that, in view of the

Supreme Court's decision in Shump, defendant owed

plaintiff a duty of ordinary care rather than the lesser duty

of refraining from willful or wanton misconduct.

Shump was an action by the administrator of the

estate of a woman who had died from fumes of a fire in

an apartment in which she was an overnight guest. The

administrator alleged that the decedent's death was

proximately caused by the landlord's failure to install a

smoke detector on the first floor of the apartment in

violation of a city ordinance. The landlord argued

that the decedent was an invitee in the apartment and that

its only duty to her was to refrain from willful or wanton

misconduct. The Ohio Supreme Court determined,

however, that the landlord owed the decedent the same

duty that it owed the tenant of the apartment in which she

died:

The common-law classifications of

trespasser, licensee, and invitee determine

the legal duty that a tenant owes others

who enter upon rental property that is in

the exclusive control of the tenant.

However, with regard to areas within the

exclusive possession of a tenant, the

common-law classifications do not affect

the legal duty that a landlord owes a

tenant or others lawfully upon the leased

premises. In the case at hand, it is

undisputed that the apartment was in the

exclusive possession of [the tenant] when

1996 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3, *6

the fumes from the fire in his apartment overtook [the decedent].

Id. at 417 (emphasis in original).

Plaintiff in this case was not injured on premises that were in the exclusive control of a tenant. Rather, she was injured in a parking lot that was in the landlord's control.

The Supreme Court's decision in Shump had no impact on the duty owed plaintiff in this case. Further, as discussed below, even if, as contended by plaintiff, defendant owed her a duty of ordinary care, the undisputed evidence in this case established no breach of that duty. Plaintiff's first assignment of error is overruled.

Plaintiffs second assignment of error is that defendant was not entitled to judgment as a matter of law.

As discussed above, plaintiff was a licensee on defendant's property at the time of her injury. Plaintiff, however, has argued that, in view of the Supreme Court's decision in Skump, defendant owed her a duty of ordinary care. For purposes of this assignment of error, this Court will assume that defendant owed plaintiff a duty of ordinary care. Generally, an owner of a business owes its customers a duty of ordinary care in maintaining the premises in a reasonably safe condition so that those customers are neither unnecessarily nor unreasonably exposed to danger. Paschal v. Rite Aid Pharmacy Inc.

(1985), 18 Ohio St. 3d 203, 480 N.E.2d 474. As this

Court recently noted in Davis v. Friendly's Ice Cream

Corporation (September 27, 1995), Summit App. No

17094, unreported, the duty of ordinary care, however, does not make a business owner an insurer of its customers' safety. "It also does not require the owner to protect invitees from dangers which are known to the invitee or are so obvious and apparent that the invitee may reasonably be expected to discover them and protect himself." 7d. at 3, citing Paschal v. Rite Aid Pharmacy

Inc. (1985), 18 Ohio St. 3d 203, 203-204, 480 N.E.2d

474.

Plaintiff has complained about two things regarding the parking lot where she fell. First she has complained about the concrete wheel stops. She testified at her deposition, however, that she had been aware of the presence of those wheel stops from her prior visits to her daughter:

Q. You knew that there were these

concrete stops present in this parking area,

didn't you?

A. No, I never -- I never

even thought about that.

Q. But you had seen

them before, had you not?

A. Well, in the

daytime.

Q. So you were aware

from your prior visits

during the daytime that

these concrete stops were

present along the front of

the apartment complex?

A. Well, I knew they

were there, but, I mean, not

at night, you know.

Plaintiff also indicated

that she was aware

that the concrete stops were

not fastened down and

sometimes would be

pushed out of place. There

was no evidence, however,

that the stop over which she

tripped was out of place at

the time of her fall.

Even assuming

defendant owed plaintiff a

duty of ordinary care, that

duty did not include an

obligation to warn her of

the presence of the concrete

wheel stops because she

already knew about them.

Defendant, therefore, did

not breach any duty to

plaintiff regarding the

concrete wheel stops.

Plaintiff has also

complained about the

lighting in the parking lot

where she fell. Again,

Page 3

1996 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3, *9

assuming defendant owed plaintiff the same duty of ordinary care that a business owner owes a customer, that duty did not include an obligation to illuminate the parking lot:

The law in Ohio on this issue is clear.

A business owner has no duty to illuminate the business's parking lot,

'"'Darkness' is always a warning of danger, and for one's own protection it may not be disregarded."

Davis v. Friendly's Ice ream Corporation (September 27, 1995), Summit App. No. 17094, unreported at 4, quoting Jeswald v. Hutt (1968), 15 Ohio St. 2d 224, 227, 239 NE2d 37 (other citations omitted). ] There were no genuine issues of material fact and defendant was entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Plaintiffs second assignment of error is overruled.

C.

Plaintiff's third assignment of error is that the determination of whether defendant acted willfully or wantonly was a question of fact for the jury. Once a party has moved for summary judgment and has argued that the opposing party will not be able to submit evidence sufficient to carry her burden on an issue for which the opposing party will have the burden of proof at trial, in order to avoid entry of summary judgment against it, the party opposing summary judgment must submit evidence, or point to evidence already in the record, that would be sufficient to carry her burden of proof at trial:

There is no issue for trial

unless there is sufficient

evidence favoring the

nonmoving party for a jury

to return a verdict for that

party. If the evidence

is merely colorable,

or is not significantly

probative, summary

judgment may be granted.

Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc.

(1986), 477 U.S. 242, 249-250, 91 L. Ed.

2d 202, 212, 106 S. Ct. 2505.

As discussed in regard to plaintiff's

second assignment of error, the

evidence in the record would not have

been sufficient to permit a jury to return a

verdict in plaintiff's favor, even assuming

that defendant owed her a duty of ordinary

care. Accordingly, that evidence also

would not have been sufficient to permit a

jury to conclude that defendant had

engaged in willful or wanton conduct that

proximately caused plaintiffs injuries.

Plaintiffs third assignment of error is

overruled.

HL.

Plaintiffs assignments of error are

overruled. The judgment of the trial court

is affirmed.

Judgment affirmed.

The Court finds that there were

reasonable grounds for this appeal.

We order that a special mandate issue

out of this court, directing the County of

Lorain Common Pleas Court to carry this

judgment into execution.

A certified copy

of this journal entry shall constitute the

mandate, pursuant to App.R. 27.

Immediately upon the filing hereof,.

this document shall constitute the journal

entry of judgment, and it shall be file

stamped by the Clerk of the Court of

Page 4

Page 1

LEXSEE 1998 OHIO APP. LEXIS 2460

LUIS RIOS, Appellant v. ROBERT SHAUCK, et al., Appellees

C.A. NO. 97CA006753

COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO, NINTH APPELLATE DISTRICT, LORAIN

CoUNTY

1998 Ohio App.

LEXIS 2460

June 3, 1998, Decided

PRIOR HISTORY: [*I] APPEAL FROM

JUDGMENT ENTERED IN THE COMMON PLEAS

COURT. COUNTY OF LORAIN, OHIO. CASE NO.

96CV116702.

DISPOSITION: Judgment affirmed.

COUNSEL: JOHN R. MIRALDI, Attorney at Law,

Lorain, Ohio, for Appellant.

KURT ANDERSON, Attorney at Law, Elyria, Ohio, for

Appellees.

JUDGES: CLAIR E. DICKINSON, Judge. SLABY, P.J.,

BAIRD, J., CONCUR.

OPINION BY: CLAIR E. DICKINSON

OPINION

DECISION AND JOURNAL ENTRY

Dated: June 3, 1998

This cause was heard upon the record in the trial court. Each error assigned has been reviewed and the following disposition is made:

DICKINSON, Judge.

Plaintiff Luis A. Rios has appealed from an order of the Lorain County Common Pleas Court that granted summary judgment to defendants Robert and Barbara

Shauck. He has argued that the trial court incorrectly applied the "two-inch rule" to find that a defect on an

interior staircase landing on rental property was not

unreasonably unsafe as a matter of law. This Court

affirms the judgment of the trial court because the defect

on the staircase landing was open and obvious in that

plaintiff had actual knowledge of its existence.

I.

On December 31, 1994, plaintiff tripped on a bulge

in a carpet that covered a staircase landing on

defendants' property, fracturing his foot. At the time,

plaintiff was living with a tenant who rented one of four

units at that residential property. Apparently, another

tenant had dropped a refrigerator on the landing, making

a hole. That tenant covered the hole with a board, then

placed the carpet over the entire area. The board was

approximately 3/4" thick and raised the carpet by at Icast

that height.

On July 12, 1996, plaintiff filed a complaint against

defendants in the Lorain County Common Pleas Court.

On February 14, 1997, defendants moved for summary

judgment. Plaintiff responded, and, on March 25, 1997,

the trial court granted summary judgment to defendants.

Specifically, the trial court determined that plaintiff had

actual knowledge of the condition. Furthermore, it

determined that the carpet bulge was about one inch and

that there were no attendant circumstances that made the

bulge unreasonably unsafe. Consequently, defendants

were not responsible for plaintiffs injuries. Plaintiff

timely appealed to this Court.

TL

Plaintiffs assignment of error is that the trial court

incorrectly applied the two-inch rule to an interior defect

Page 2

1998 Ohio App. LEXIS 2460,

in a common staircase landing of a residential rental premises. Both plaintiff and defendants have confined their briefs to discussions of the "two-inch rule." That rule, as developed by the Ohio Supreme Court, is that a difference in elevation in a sidewalk or walkway of less than two inches is considered insubstantial as a matter of aw and, therefore, does not present a question for a jury, unless attendant circumstances exist that render the defect substantial. See, eg., Kimball v. Cincinnati (1953), 160

Ohio St. 370, 116 N.E.2d 708, Cash v. Cincinnati (1981)

66 Ohio St. 2d 319, 421 N.E.2d 1275, and Stockhauser v.

Archdiocese of Cincinnati (1994), 97 Ohio App. 3d 29,

33, 646 N.E.2d 198. Plaintiff has argued that the two-inch rule "evolved in the context of exterior conditions" and should not have been applied to this case, when his injuries were caused by an interior defect on rental property. This Court, however, need not decide the applicability of the two-inch rule to this case.

Plaintiff has premised his argument on a theory that, as a social guest of a tenant, he was entitled to the protections of the Ohio Landlord-Tenant Act, particularly

Section

5321.04 of the Ohio Revised Code. See

Shump v. First Continental-Robinwood Assoc. (1994), 71

Ohio St. 3d 414, 644 N.E.2d 291, syllabus. Plaintiff, however, was injured in a common area, namely, the staircase landing leading to the upstairs apartments. This

Court, in distinguishing Shump, has held that a social guest, injured in an area not in the exclusive control of the tenant, is owed a duty of care by the landlord no higher than that owed to a licensee. See Sanders v.

Bellevue Manor Apts. (Jan. 3, 1996), Lorain App. No.

95CA006067, unreported, 1996 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3, at

*6-7. But see McCool v. Hillbrook Apts. (Aug. 23, 1995),

Mahoning App. No. 93CA200, unreported, 1995 Ohio

App.

LEXIS 3538, at *4-5 (holding that a social guest of a tenant is an invitee). Consequently, plaintiff, as a social guest of the woman with whom he was living, was not protected by Section 5321.04 of the Ohio Revised Code while on the staircase landing, and the decision in Shump had no impact on the duty of care owed plaintiff. See

Sanders, 1996 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3, at *6-7

Instead, defendants owed plaintiff only the common law duty of care applicable to licensees or, at most, the duty owed to invitees. The duty owed to a licensee is to refrain from wantonly or wilfully causing injury, while the duty owed to an invitee is one of ordinary care.

See Provencher v. Ohio Dept. of Transp. (1990), 49 Ohio

St. 3d 265, 266, 551 N.E.2d 1257. In this case, whether

plaintiff was a licensee or an invitee, defendants did not

breach the duty of care that they owed him.

A landlord

owes no duty to warn a tenant's social guest of known

dangers in common areas. See Sanders, 1996 Ohio App.

LEXIS 3, at * 7-8; Stoner v. Wendy's Old-Fashioned

Hamburgers (Apt. 20, 1994), Summit App. No. 16316,

unreported, 1994 Ohio App.

LEXIS 1744, at * 3-4

In his deposition, plaintiff admitted that he knew

about the hole in the floor and the board placed over the

hole, which caused the carpet to bulge:

Q. Okay. Was this the first time that you had noticed

that there was something underneath that carpet?

A. No.

Q. When had you noticed it before?

A. Well, the neighbor upstairs *** we had talked

about it before, because it was, you could as soon as you

would step on it, you would feel how the board was, you

know, that there was something there.

Q. Okay.

A. And I guess, you know, that we all knew it was there

Q. Okay. So before this incident happened you

knew that there was something that you would step on

that was a difference in height?

A. Yes, yes.

Plaintiff knew that the carpet on the staircase landing

was uneven. In the face of such knowledge, he continued

to use the staircase, apparently without any caution on his

part to descend slowly or to watch his footing as he

walked. Consequently, defendants were not liable for his

injuries. Plaintiff's assignment of error is overruled.

HL.

Plaintiffs assignment of error is overruled. The

judgment of the trial court is affirmed.

Judgment affirmed.

The Court finds that there were reasonable grounds

for this appeal.

We order that a special mandate issue out of this

court, directing the County of Lorain Common Pleas

1998 Ohio App. LEXIS 2460, *6

Court to carry this judgment into execution.

A certified copy of this journal entry shall constitute the mandate, pursuant to 4pp.R. 27.

Immediately upon the filing hereof, this document shall constitute the journal entry of judgment, and it shall be file stamped by the Clerk of the Court of Appeals at which time the period for review shall begin to run.

App. R. 22(E).

Costs taxed to appellant.

Exceptions.

CLAMR E. DICKINSON

FOR THE COURT

SLABY, P. J.

BAIRD, J.

CONCUR

Page 3