.
1.
COMMON PLEAS COURT DELAWARE COUNTY. OHIO FILED
2015 OEC 30 AM 9:43
IN THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS DELAWARE COUNTY, OHIO
JAN ANTONOPLOS CLERK
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee, in trust for registered Holders of Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-11 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-11
Plaintiff,
VS.
Alanda Ross, et al.
Defendants.
Case No. 15 CV E 07 0451 Judge Everett H. Krueger
Parcel Number(s): 319-422-02-030- 000
PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT AND TO DISMISS DEFENDANTS
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee, in trust for registered Holders of Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-11 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-11 ("Plaintiff"), by and through the undersigned counsel and under Civil Rule 56, hereby respectfully moves this Court for summary judgment in its favor on all of its claims against Defendant John B. Harris, AKA John Harris. For cause, there are no triable issues of fact, and reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion - that Plaintiff is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Defendant John B. Harris, AKA John Harris. Plaintiff's position is more fully stated in the attached Memorandum in Support, incorporated herein by reference.
Plaintiff also moves, pursuant to Civil Rule 55, for default judgment against the following defendants, who were duly served with a Summons and Complaint but are in default for failure to file an Answer or otherwise defend:
Alanda Ross, served by Private Process Server on August 26, 2015;
15-006289 MHF
15 CV E 07 0451 00053620123 KMOTSJ
Ę9

Sonda Crawford, served by Ordinary Mail on or about November 23, 2015;
· John Doe, Name Unknown, the Unknown Spouse of Sonda Crawford, served by Ordinary Mail on or about November 23, 2015;
Christopher S. Thompson, served by Ordinary Mail on or about November 23, 2015;
The Association of Powell Place Home Owners, served by Certified Mail on July 23, 2015;
Plaintiff further moves this Court pursuant to Rule 21 of the Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure for an order dismissing John Doe, Name Unknown, the Unknown Spouse of Alanda Ross (if any) and Jane Doe, Name Unknown, the Unknown Spouse of John B. Harris, AKA John Harris (if any) from this action. Plaintiff has learned that the foregoing defendants do not have an interest in the property that is the subject of this foreclosure action.
Plaintiff acknowledges that the County Treasurer may claim an interest in the Property as a result of taxes, assessments and penalties that may be due on the Property. Plaintiff further acknowledges that, under Ohio law, liens securing the payment of taxes, assessments and penalties on property are first in terms of priority. As a result, the Treasurer will be given senior priority to Plaintiff's claim.
Plaintiff acknowledges that all personal obligations of Alanda Ross on the promissory note that is the subject of this foreclosure action have been discharged under the United States Bankruptcy Code. As a result, Plaintiff does not seek personal judgment against said defendant but rather seeks only a finding of default on the note and an order and decree of foreclosure.
15-006289 MHF

Respectfully submitted,
David F. Hanson (0059580)
Michael E. Carleton (0083352)
Craig J. Spadafore (0081279)
Matthew P. Curry (0078306) Manley Deas Kochalski LLC P. O. Box 165028 Columbus, OH 43216-5028 Telephone: 614-222-4921 Fax: 614-220-5613 Email: dfh@manleydeas.com Attorney for Plaintiff
*Please note: The documents attached hereto may have been redacted to remove personal information and personal identifiers, such as financial account information, social security numbers, dates of birth, and similar information to further protect the privacy of borrowers and mortgagors.
15-006289_MHF

-
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
I. STATEMENT OF THE FACTS
Plaintiff initiated this foreclosure action against Alanda Ross and John B. Harris, AKA John Harris ("Defendants") and the real property commonly known as: 762 Bovee Lane, Powell, OH 43065 (the "Property").
On or about November 20, 2006, Alanda Ross and John B. Harris, AKA John Harris signed and delivered a promissory note (the "Note") in the original amount of $265,500.00. See Plaintiff's Affidavit attached hereto as an exhibit and a copy of the Note attached thereto.
To secure payment of the Note, Alanda Ross and John B. Harris, AKA John Harris signed and delivered a mortgage (the "Mortgage") on the Property. See Plaintiff's Affidavit and a copy of the recorded Mortgage attached thereto. The Mortgage remains a valid and subsisting lien on the Property, subject only to any lien that may be held by the County Treasurer that has priority over the Mortgage as a matter of law.
As established through Plaintiff's Affidavit and supporting evidence, Plaintiff is entitled not only to enforce the terms of the Note, but also the terms of the Mortgage, which was given to secure the Note. See Plaintiff's Affidavit. Defendants are in default of payment on the Note from February 1, 2014. See Plaintiff's Affidavit. As a result, Plaintiff has exercised its option to accelerate the balance due on the Note. The default remains uncured, and Defendants are in breach of the contract.
Defendant John B. Harris, AKA John Harris filed an Answer to Plaintiff's Complaint, which Answer contains no facts or defenses which could defeat summary judgment.
15-006289 MHF

II. LAW AND ARGUMENT
Summary judgment is appropriately rendered when there remains no genuine issue of material fact and, when construing the evidence most favorably towards the nonmoving party, reasonable minds could not draw different conclusions from the undisputed facts. Turner v. Turner, 67 Ohio St.3d 337, 341, 617 N.E.2d 1123 (1993). Under Civ.R. 56(C), the moving party bears the initial burden of identifying for the court the portions of the record that demonstrate the absence of a genuine issue of fact on a material element of the nonmoving party's claim.
Dresher v. Burt, 75 Ohio St.3d 280, 293, 662 N.E.2d 264 (1996). After the moving party has sufficiently supported the motion, the responding party may not rest upon the mere allegations and denials in the pleadings but must, instead, demonstrate with specificity that there exists a triable issue. Mitseff v. Wheeler, 38 Ohio St.3d 112, 115, 526 N.E.2d 798 (1988).
It is settled Ohio law that a default in payment under the terms of the promissory note entitles enforcement of the note once it has been accelerated. Gaul v. Olympia Fitness Center. Inc., 88 Ohio App.3d 310, 315, 623 N.E.2d 1281 (1993). Upon such a breach, the mortgagee may sue for foreclosure of the mortgage followed by sale of the mortgaged property. Levin v. Carney, 161 Ohio St. 513, 517-18, 120 N.E.2d 92 (1954).
Applying the foregoing standards to the facts of this case inarguably warrants the conclusion that Plaintiff must be granted judgment in its favor. There is no dispute that a material condition has been broken. See Plaintiff's Affidavit. Defendants agreed to make regular monthly mortgage payments until the entire principal amount and interest due under the Note were paid in full. See Plaintiff's Affidavit. Defendants failed to remit the requisite monthly
15-006289 MHF

--
mortgage payments, thereby defaulting under the terms of the Note and Mortgage. See Plaintiff's Affidavit. The default has not been cured.
As a result, there is currently due and payable on the Note principal in the amount of $250,769.22, plus interest on the outstanding balance at the rate of 5.3% per annum from January 1, 2014, plus late charges and advances. See Plaintiff's Affidavit. By virtue of this default, Plaintiff is contractually entitled to foreclose the Property delivered as security under the Mortgage.
:
Even with these facts viewed in a light most favorable to Defendants, reasonable minds could only find that Plaintiff is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
III. CONCLUSION
For the preceding reasons, Plaintiff respectfully requests that this Court grant summary judgment in its favor and find that Plaintiff is entitled to the relief prayed for in its pleadings. Plaintiff also requests an order granting it such other and further relief as this Court deems appropriate.
a
David F. Hanson (0059580) Michael E. Carleton (0083352) Craig J. Spadafore (0081279) Matthew P. Curry (0078306) Manley Deas Kochalski LLC P. O. Box 165028 Columbus, OH 43216-5028 Telephone: 614-222-4921 Fax: 614-220-5613 Email: dfh@manleydeas.com Attorney for Plaintiff
15-006289_MHF

IN THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS DELAWARE COUNTY, OHIO
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee, in trust for registered Holders of Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-11 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-11
Plaintiff,
Case No. 15 CV E 07 0451 Judge Everett H. Krueger
AFFIDAVIT
VS.
Alanda Ross, et al.
Defendants.
STATE OF Utan
COUNTY OF
Salt Lake)
) SS
Veronica Mark
("Affiant"), being first duly sworn according to law, deposes and says on the basis of personal knowledge:
1. I am a Document Control Officer at Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. ("SPS"), Servicer for Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee, in trust for registered Holders of Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-11 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-11 (the "Plaintiff"). I am authorized to make and do make this certification on behalf of Plaintiff. SPS maintains a computer database (the "Loan Records") of acts, transactions,
15-006289 CJH2
E14

payments, communications, escrow account activity, disbursements, events, and analyses (the "Loan Transactions") with respect to the mortgage loans which SPS services. I have access to the Loan Records maintained with respect to the subject loan. Based upon those records, I am personally familiar with the subject loan. I am authorized to make this certification.
2. In my capacity as Document Control Officer at SPS, I have access to the loan records relating to mortgage loans that are maintained in the ordinary course of the regularly conducted activity of mortgage loan servicing, including the Borrowers' mortgage loan. The statements I make in this Affidavit are based upon my review of those Loan Records relating to the Borrowers' mortgage loan and from my own personal knowledge of how the Loan Records are kept and maintained. The Loan Transaction for the Borrowers' mortgage loan was recorded at or near the time of the event and by or from information transmitted from a person with knowledge. I have personally reviewed and independently verified the accuracy of the factual information included in this affidavit.
3. The Loan Records reflect that the following person or persons signed the promissory note ("Note"), and are referred to herein as "Borrowers": Alanda Ross and John B. Harris, AKA John Harris.
4. The Loan Records reflect that Plaintiff is the owner and holder of a bond/note and mortgage executed by Alanda Ross and John B. Harris, AKA John Harris in the sum of $265,500.00 dated November 20, 2006.
5. The Loan Records reflect that Alanda Ross and John B. Harris, AKA John Harris defaulted under the terms and conditions of the above stated note/bond and mortgage by failing, refusing and neglecting to make the payment due February 1, 2014, and all
15-006289 CJH2

-
payments due thereafter. The Loan Records also reflect that Plaintiff sent the required Notice of Intent to Foreclosure to the borrower(s) at least 30 days prior to filing the foreclosure complaint.
6. The Loan Records reflect that the aforesaid note initially required monthly principal and interest payments in the sum of $2,145.84 per month.
7. The Loan Records reflect that the Borrowers have defaulted under the Note and Mortgage and have failed to cure the default. All requirements necessary to accelerate the loạn have been met, and the loan has been accelerated, making the unpaid principal balance due and owing, including accrued interest and advances for taxes, insurance, and otherwise to protect the property, if any.
8. Plaintiff is entitled to collect the amount due on the Note and enforce the Mortgage. Attached hereto as Exhibits A and B are copies of the Note, and Mortgage. Attached hereto as Exhibit C is a copy of the pay history for the loan. Attached hereto as Exhibit D is a copy of the demand letter sent to the Defendants prior to foreclosure. Attached hereto as Exhibit E is a copy of the Loan Modification Agreement dated October 1, 2008 signed by the Defendants. Attached hereto as Exhibit F is a copy of the Assignment of Mortgage.
9. As of the date of execution, the amount due on the Note includes (a) unpaid principal in the amount of $250,769.22; (b) interest on the unpaid principal at the rate of 5.3%, subject to adjustment if provided in the Note, from January 1, 2014; (c) advances made for taxes and insurance: and (d) advances made to protect the property.
10. The business records I reviewed do not indicate that the Borrowers are on active military duty.
15-006289_CJH2

---
.
.
11. The business records I reviewed do not indicate that the Borrowers are incompetent or minors. Select Portfolio Servicing. Inc as Attorney in Fact
BY:
Veronica Mack 1/29/15
Affiant
Veronica Mark
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 29 day of JULY, 2015
Document Control Officer
By Veronica Mark Personally Known Doc. Control Officer
Em
Notary Public
State of
Utah
Salt Lake COUNTY
My Commission expires:
AUG 2,2 2017
Personally Known
X
OR Produced Identification N/A
.
Type of identification produced: Personally Known .
ERIN WEBSTER Notary Public. State of Utah 9 My Commission Expires on; : August 22, 2017 Comm. Number: 669589
15-006289 CJH2

J
.
*Please note: The documents attached hereto may have been redacted to remove personal information and personal identifiers, such as financial account information, social security numbers, dates of birth, and similar information to further protect the privacy of borrowers and mortgagors.
15-006289 CJH2

-
EXHIBIT A
NOTE
November 20, 2006 Dublin
Ohio
[City!
[State]
762.Boves Lene, Powell, OH 43065
Redacted
[Property Address]
1. BORROWER'S PROMISE TO PAY In return for a loan that I have received, I promise to pay U.S. $ 265,500.00 plus interest, to the order of the Lender, The Lender is Washington Mutual Bank
(this amount is called "Principal"),
I will make all payments under this Note in the form of cash, check or money order.
I understand that the Lender may transfer this Note. The Lender or anyone who takes this Note by transfer and who is entitled to receive payments under this Note is called the "Note Holder."
2. INTEREST
Interest will be charged on unpaid principal until the full amount of Principal has been paid. I will pay interest at a yearly rate of 9.060 %.
The interest rate required by this Section 2 is the rate I will pay both before and after any default described in Section 6(3) of this Note.
3. PAYMENTS
(A) Time and Place of Payments
I will pay Principal and interest by making a payment every month.
I will make my monthly payment on the First day of each month beginning on January 1, 2007 I will make these payments every month until I have paid all of the Principal and interest and any other charges described below that I may owe under this Note. Each monthly payment will be applied as of its scheduled due date and will be applied to interest before Principal. If, on December 1, 2036 , I still owe amounts under this Note, I will pay those amounts in full on that date, which is called the "Maturity Date."
I will make my monthly payments at Washington Mutual Bank, P.O.Box 3139, Milwaukee, WI 53201-3139 or at a different place If required by the Note Holder.
(B) Amount of Monthly Payments My monthly payment will be in the amount of U.S. $2,145,84
--
.
4. BORROWER'S RIGHT TO PREPAY I have the right to make payments of Principal at any time before they are dne. A prepayment of all of the unpaid principal is known as a "Full Prepayment." A prepayment of only part of the unpaid principal is known as a "Partial Prepayment."
Except as provided below, I may make a Full or Partial Prepayment at any time, If I make a Full Prepayment, I may be charged a fee as follows:
If Note Holder receives a Full Prepayment on or before the first anniversary of the date of the Note, the prepayment fee
shall be equal to Three percent ( 3.000%) of the original loan amount. If Note Holder receives a Pull Prepayment after the first anniversary but on or before the second anniversary of the date of the Note, the prepayment fee shall be Two percent ( 2.000 %) of the original loan amount .. If Note Holder receives a Full Prepayment after the second anniversary but on or before the third ammiversary of the date of the Note, the prepayment fee shall be One percent ( 1.000 %) of the original loan amount. Thereafter, prepayment of the Note shall be permitted without any prepayment fee.
When I ruke a Foll or Partial Prepayment, I will notify the Note Holder in writing that I am doing so. Any Partial Prepayment of principal shall be applied to interest accrued on the amount prepaid and then to the principal balance of the Note which shall not reduce the amount of monthly installments of principal and interest nor releve me of the obligation to make the installments each and every month until the Note is paid in full. Partial Prepayments shall have no effect upon the due dates of the amounts of my monthly payments imless the Note Holder agrees in writing to such changes.
MULTISTATE FIXED RATE NOTE
Redactosom
Prop 1 of @ VMP Mertpage Salutiens ina.
Redacted
--

-
:
5. LOAN CHARGES
.
If a law, which applies to this loan and which sets maximum loan charges, is finally interpreted so that the interest or other loan charges collected or to be collected in connection with this loan exceed the permitted limits, then: (a) any such loan charge shall be reduced by the amount necessary to reduce the charge to the permitted limit; and (b) any sums already collected from me which execeded permitted limits will be refunded to me. The Note Holder may choose to make this refund by reducing the Principal I owe under this Note or by making a direct payment to me. If a refund reduces Principal, the reduction will be treated as a Partial Prepayment.
6. BORROWER'S FAILURE TO PAY AS REQUIRED -
(A) Late Charge for Overdue Payments
If the Note Holder has ant received the full amount of amy monthly payment by the end of Fifteen calendar days
after the date it is due, I will pay a Inte charge to the Note Holder. The amount of the charge will be 6% of
my overdue payment of Principal and interest. I will pay this late charge promptly but only once on each late payment.
(B) Default
If I do not pay the full amount of each monthly payment on the date it is due, I will be in default.
(C) Notice of Default
If I am in default, the Note Holder may send me a written notice telling me that if I do not pay the overdue amount by a certain date, the Note Holder may require ine to pay immediately the full amount of Principal which has not been paid and all the interest that I owe on that amount. That date must be at least 30 days after the date on which the notice is mailed to me or delivered by other means. *
(D) No Walver By Note Holder
Even if, at a time when I am in default, the Note Holder does not require me to pay immediately in full as described above, the Note Holder will still have the right to do so if I am in default at a later time.
(5) Payment of Note Holder's Costs and Expenses
If the Note Holder has required me to pay immediately in full as described above, the Note Holder will have the right to be paid back by me for all of its costs and expenses in enforcing this Note to the extent not prohibited by applicable law. Those expenses include, for example, reasonable attorneys' fees.
7. GIVING OF NOTICES
Unless applicable law requires a different method, any notice that must be given to me under this Note will be given by delivering it or by mailing it by first class mail to me at the Property Address above or at a different address if I give the Note Holder a notice of my different address.
Any notice that must be given to the Note Holder under this Note will be given by delivering it or by mailing it by first cinss mail to the Note Holder at the address Stated in Section 3(A) above or at a different address if I am given a notice of that different address.
8. OBLIGATIONS OF PERSONS UNDER THIS NOTE
If more than one person signs this Note, each person is fully and personally obligated to keep all of the promises made in this Note, including the promise to pay the full amount owed. Any person who is a guarantor, surety or endorser of this Note is also obligated to do these things. Any person who takes over these obligations, including the obligations of a guarantor, surety or endorser of this Note, is also obligated to keep all of the promises made in this Note. The Note Holder may enforce its rights under this Note against each person individually or against all of us together. This means that any one of us may be required to pay all of the amounts owed under this Note.
9. WAIVERS
I and any other person who has obligations under this Note waive the rights of Presentment and Notice of Dishonor. "Presentment" means the right to require the Note Holder to demand payment of amounts due. "Notice of Dishonor" means the right to require the Note Holder to give notice to other persons that amounts due have not been paid.
10. UNIFORM SECURED NOTE
This Note is a uniform instrument with limited variations in some jurisdictions. In addition to the protections given to the Note Holder under this Note, a Mortgage, Deed of Trust, or Security Deed (the "Security Instrument"), dated the same dale as this Note, protects the Note Holder from possible losses which might result if I do not keep the promises which I make in this Note. That Security Instrument describes how and under what conditions I may be required to make immediate payment in full of all amounts I owe under this Note. Some of those conditions are described as follows:
.
MULTISTATE FIXED RATE NOTE
Redac os00
Redacted
-
--
-

.
Transfer of the property or a Beneficial Interest in Barrower. As used in this Section 18, "Interest in the Property" means any legal or beneficial interest in the Property, including, but not limited to, those beneficial interests transferred in a bond for deed, contract for deed, installment sales contract or escrow agreement, the intent of which is the transfer of title by Borrower at a future date to a purchaser.
If all or any part of the Property or any Interest in the Property is sold or transferred (or if Borrower is not a natural person and a beneficial interest in Borrower is sold or transferred) without Lender's prior written consent, Lender may require immediate payment in full of all sams secuted by this Security bostrument. However, this option shall not be exercised by Lender if such exercise is prohibited by Applicable Law.
If Lender exercises this option, Lander shall give Borrower notice of acceleration. The notice shall provide a period of not less than 30 days from the date the notice is given in accordance with Section 15 within which Borrower must pay all sums secured by this Security Instrument. If Borrower falls to pay these sums prior to the expiration of this period, Lender may invoke any remedies permitted by this Security Instrument without further notice of demand on Borrower.
........
------
WITNESS THE HAND(S) AND SBAL(S) OF THE UNDERSIGNED.
-(Scal)
Alanda Ross
John B Harris
-(Seal) -Bortower
-(Seal) -Borrower
-(Seal) -Borrower
....
(Scal) -Borrower
(Scal)
-Dorrower
-(Scal)
(Scal)
-Borrower
-Borrower
[Sign Original Onty]
+
MULTISTATE FIXED RATE NOTE
Redacte os
Redacted
-
.
-
.
-
.
-

Pay to the order of
Without Recet: 1 Washington duty.i Bank
Robin E! Tange, Vice Picadent

Recording Requested By and When Recorded Mail To:
Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. P.O. Box 65250 Salt Lake City, UT 84165-0250 Attn: Document Control
11660857 06/11/2013 12:51 PM $28.00 Book - 10148 Ps - 370-379 GARY W. OTT RECORDER, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH SELECT PORTFOLIO SERVICING PD BOX 65250 SLC UT 84165 BY: SAM, DEPUTY - WI 10 P.
Space Above for Recording Information
LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (hereinafter "Master Servicer"), a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States, and having its principal place of business at 1111 Polaris Parkway, Columbus, Ohio 43240, pursuant to authority granted to Master Servicer in certain agreements described in Exhibit A (individually, an "Agreement" and together, the "Agreements") and in the Limited Power of Attorney granted by Deutsche Bank National Trust Company as Trustee ("Trustee"), attached as a true and correct copy as Exhibit B, hereby constitutes and appoints Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (hereinafter "Sub-Servicer"), by and through its officers, as Master Servicer's true and lawful Attorney-In-Fact to act in the name, place and stead of Master Servicer, in connection with all mortgage or other loans serviced by Master Servicer pursuant to the Agreements, solely for the purpose of performing such acts and executing such documents in the name of Master Servicer in its capacity as Attorney-In-Fact for the Trustee.
This appointment shall apply only to those enumerated transactions for which the Trustee has appointed the Master Servicer as its Attorney-In-Fact pursuant to Exhibit B. Master Servicer hereby ratifies every act that Sub-Servicer may lawfully perform in exercising those powers by virtue hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Master Servicer has executed this Limited Power of Attorney this 3rd day of May, 2013.
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
By: Name: Sean Grzebin Title: Senior Vice President
RGAN CHA FORPORY SE
JPMOR
SEAL 1824
BANK NA
UNITED
STATES
On May 3, 2013, before me, a Notary Public in and for said State, personally appeared Sean Grzebin, known to me to be a Senior Vice President of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association that executed the above instrument, and also known to me to be the person who executed said instrument on behalf of such corporation and acknowledged to me that such corporation executed the within instrument.
. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal the day and year in this certificate first above written. EL
Notary Public"
OCE AMMISSION 19 18-20 BONDED THROUGH WESTERN SURETY COMPANY - S.E. TEAM
OF FLORIDA
SEE 3911
BI
IC. ST
I
STATE OF FLORIDA)
)SS:
COUNTY OF DUVAL)

Exhibit A
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of November 1, 2002 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2002-5 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2002-5 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, Federal National Mortgage Association, Guarantor (with respect to the Class A-1 Certificates and the Class S-I Certificates) and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of February 1, 2003 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2003-1 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2003-1 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, Federal National Mortgage Association, Guarantor (with respect to the Class A-1 Certificates and the Class S-1 Certificates) and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of April 1, 2003 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2003-2 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2003-2 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of June 1, 2003 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2003-3 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2003-3 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of July 1, 2003 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2003-4 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2003-4 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of February 1, 2004 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2004-1 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2004-1 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of May 1, 2004 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2004-2 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2004-2 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of June 1, 2004 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2004-3 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2004-3 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of June 1, 2004 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2004-3 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2004-3 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of August 1, 2004 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2004-5 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2004-5 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of September 1, 2004 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2004-4 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2004-4 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of October 1, 2004 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2004-6 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2004-6 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustce.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of January 1, 2005 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-1 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2005-1 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.

Exhibit A (continued)
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of January 1, 2005 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-1 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2005-1 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of April 1, 2005 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-2. Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2005-2 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of July 1, 2005 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-WLI Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2005-WLI between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-WL2 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2005-WL2 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of September 1, 2005 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-3 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2005-3 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of November 1, 2005 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-WL3 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2005-WL3 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of January 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-WL2 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-WL2 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of January 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-WL3 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-WL3 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of January 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-WLI Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-WL1 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of February 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-1 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-1 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of March 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-2 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-2 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of April 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-3 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-3 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of May 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-A Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-A between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.

Exhibit A (continued)
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of May 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-4 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-4 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of June 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-5 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-5 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Long Beach Mortgage Company, Seller and Master Servicer, and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of July 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-6 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-6 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Washington Mutual Bank, Seller and Servicer, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Delaware, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of August 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-7 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-7 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Washington Mutual Bank, Seller and Servicer, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Delaware, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of September 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-8 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-8 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Washington Mutual Bank, Seller and Servicer, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Delaware, Trustee.
. Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of October 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-9 Asset- Backed Certificates, Series 2006-9 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Washington Mutual Bank, Seller and Servicer, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Delaware, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of November 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-10 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-10 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Washington Mutual Bank, Seller and Servicer, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Delaware, Trustee.
Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of December 1, 2006 for Long Beach Mortgage Loan Trust 2006-11 Asset-Backed Certificates, Series 2006-11 between Long Beach Securities Corp., Depositor, Washington Mutual Bank, Seller and Servicer, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Delaware, Trustee.
n156 BBC, BBD, BBE, BBF, BBG, BBJ, BBL, BBM, BBP, BBQ, BBR, BBT, BBU, BBW, BBX, BBY, BCA, BCC, BCD, BCE, BCF, BCH, BCJ, BCK, BCL, BCM, BCN, BCP, BCQ, BCR, BCS, BCT

When recorded return to: JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association 7255 Baymeadows Way Reo Dept. - FL5-7241 Jacksonville, Fl. 32256
LIMITED POWER OF ATTORNEY Exhibit B
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States, and having its usual place of business at 1761 East St. Andrew Place, Santa Ana, California, 92705, as Trustee (the "Trustee") pursuant to those certain Pooling and Servicing Agreements referenced on Exhibit A (the "Agreements") by and among the Trustee, Washington Mutual Bank, formerly known as Long Beach Mortgage Company, and Long Beach Securities Corp, and in accordance with the Purchase and Assumption Agreement among the FDIC as receiver of Washington Mutual Bank and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. dated as of September 25, 2008, pursuant to which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. assumed the servicing obligations of Washington Mutual Bank, FA under that certain Servicing Agreement dated April 1, 2001 between Washington Mutual Bank, FA and Washington Mutual Mortgage Securities Corp, hereby constitutes and appoints JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Servicer (the "Servicer"), by and through the Servicer's officers, the Trustee's true and lawful Attorney-in-Fact, in the Trustee's name, place and stead and for the Trustee's benefit, in connection with all mortgage loans serviced by the Servicer pursuant to the Agreement solely for the purpose of performing such acts and executing such documents in the name of the Trustee necessary and appropriate to effectuate the following enumerated transactions in respect of any of the mortgages or deeds of trust (the "Mortgages" and the "Deeds of Trust" respectively) and promissory notes secured thereby (the "Mortgage Notes") for which the undersigned is acting as Trustee for various certificateholders (whether the undersigned is named therein as mortgagee or beneficiary or has become mortgagee by virtue of endorsement of the Mortgage Note secured by any such Mortgage or Deed of Trust) and for which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is acting as the Servicer.
This Appointment shall apply only to the following enumerated transactions and nothing herein or in the Agreement shall be construed to the contrary:
1. The modification or re-recording of a Mortgage or Deed of Trust, where said modification or re-recording is solely for the purpose of correcting the Mortgage or Deed of Trust to conform same to the original intent of the parties thereto or to correct title errors discovered after such title insurance was issued; provided that (i) said modification or re-recording, in either instance, does not adversely affect the lien of the Mortgage or Deed of Trust as insured and (ii) otherwise conforms to the provisions of the Agreement.

2. The subordination of the lien of a Mortgage or Deed of Trust to an easement in favor of a public utility company of a government agency or unit with powers of eminent domain; this section shall include, without limitation, the execution of partial satisfactions/releases, partial reconveyances or the execution or requests to trustees to accomplish same.
3. The conveyance of the properties to the mortgage insurer, or the closing of the title to the property to be acquired as real estate owned, or conveyance of title to real estate owned.
4. The completion of loan assumption agreements.
5. The full satisfaction/release of a Mortgage or Deed of Trust or full conveyance upon payment and discharge of all sums secured thereby, including, without limitation, cancellation of the related Mortgage Note.
6. The assignment of any Mortgage or Deed of Trust and the related Mortgage Note, in connection with the repurchase of the mortgage loan secured and evidenced thereby.
7. The full assignment of a Mortgage or Deed of Trust upon payment and discharge of all sums secured thereby in conjunction with the refinancing thereof, including, without limitation, the assignment of the related Mortgage Note.
8. The full enforcement of and preservation of the Trustee'sinterests in the Mortgage Notes, Mortgages or Deeds of Trust, and in the proceeds thereof, by way of, including but not limited to, foreclosure, the taking of a deed in lieu of foreclosure, or the completion of judicial or non-judicial foreclosure or the termination, cancellation or rescission of any such foreclosure, the initiation, prosecution and completion of eviction actions or proceedings with respect to, or the termination, cancellation or rescission of any such eviction actions or proceedings, and the pursuit of title insurance, hazard insurance and claims in bankruptcy proceedings, including, without limitation, any and all of the following acts:
a. the substitution of trustee(s) serving under a Deed of Trust, in accordance with state law and the Deed of Trust;
b. the preparation and issuance of statements of breach or non-performance;
c. the preparation and filing of notices of default and/or notices of sale;
d. the cancellation/rescission of notices of default and/or notices of sale;
.
e. the taking of deed in lieu of foreclosure;

f. the filing, prosecution and defense of claims, and to appear on behalf of the Trustee, in bankruptcy cases affecting Mortgage Notes, Mortgages or Deeds of Trust;
g. the preparation and service of notices to quit and all other documents necessary to initiate, prosecute and complete eviction actions or proceedings;
h. the tendering, filing, prosecution and defense, as applicable, of hazard insurance and title insurance claims, including but not limited to appearing on behalf of the Trustee in quiet title actions; and
i. the preparation and execution of such other documents and performance of such other actions as may be necessary under the terms of the Mortgage, Deed of Trust or state law to expeditiously complete said transactions in paragraphs 8.a. through 8.h. above.
9. With respect to the sale of property acquired through a foreclosure or deed-in lieu of foreclosure, including, without limitation, the execution of the following documentation:
a. listing agreements;
b. purchase and sale agreements;
c. grant/warranty/quit claim deeds or any other deed causing the transfer of title of the property to a party contracted to purchase same;
d. escrow instructions; and
e. any and all documents necessary to effect the transfer of property.
10. The modification or amendment of escrow agreements established for repairs to the mortgaged property or reserves for replacement of personal property.
The undersigned gives said Attorney-in-Fact full power and authority to execute such instruments and to do and perform all and every act and thing necessary and proper to carry into effect the power or powers granted by or under this Limited Power of Attorney as fully as the undersigned might or could do, and hereby does ratify and confirm to all that said Attorney-in- Fact shall be effective as of February 11, 2013.
This appointment is to be construed and interpreted as a limited power of attorney. The enumeration of specific items, rights, acts or powers herein is not intended to, nor does it give rise to, and it is not to be construed as a general power of attorney.
Solely to the extent that the Servicer has the power to delegate its rights or obligations under the Agreement, the Servicer also has the power to delegate the authority given to it by Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee, under this Limited Power of Attorney, for purposes of performing its obligations and duties by executing such additional powers of attorney in favor of

its attorneys-in-fact as are necessary for such purpose. The Servicer's attorneys-in-fact shall have no greater authority than that held by the Servicer.
Nothing contained herein shall: (i) limit in any manner any indemnification provided to the Trustee under the Agreement, (ii) limit in any manner the rights and protections afforded the Trustee under the Agreement, or (iii) be construed to grant the Servicer the power to initiate or defend any suit, litigation or proceeding in the name of Deutsche Bank National Trust Company except as specifically provided for herein. If the Servicer receives any notice of suit, litigation or proceeding in the name of Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, then the Servicer shall promptly forward a copy of same to the Trustee.
This limited power of attorney is not intended to extend the powers granted to the Servicer under the Agreement or to allow the Servicer to take any action with respect to Mortgages, Deeds of Trust or Mortgage Notes not authorized by the Agreement.
The Servicer hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the Trustee and its directors, officers, employees and agents harmless from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever incurred by reason or result of or in connection with the exercise by the Servicer, or its attorneys-in-fact, of the powers granted to it hereunder. The foregoing indemnity shall survive the termination of this Limited Power of Attorney and the Agreement or the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee under the Agreement.
This Limited Power of Attorney is entered into and shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts of law principles of such state.
Third parties without actual notice may rely upon the exercise of the power granted under this Limited Power of Attorney; and may be satisfied that this Limited Power of Attorney shall continue in full force and effect and has not been revoked unless an instrument of revocation has been made in writing by the undersigned.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee has caused its corporate seal to be hereto affixed and these presents to be signed and acknowledged in its name and behalf by a duly elected and authorized signatory this 11th day of February 2013.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee
By
Name: Ronaldo Reyes Title: Vice President
Prepared by:
Name: Tim Avakian
Witness:
Hang Luu
Witness:
Jenny Pilag 20
State of California County of Orange
On February 11, 2013, before me, Imelda Flores, Notary Public, personally appeared Ronaldo Reyes, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he executed the same in his authorized capacity and that by his signature on the instrument the person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
Witness my hand and official seal.
Notary signature
IMELDA FLORES Commission # 1991652 Notary Public - California Orange County My Comm. Expires Sep 20, 2016

EXHIBIT A
Pursuant to those certain Pooling and Servicing Agreements referenced below (the Agreements") by and among the Trustee, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as successor in interest to Washington Mutual Bank, formerly known as Long Beach Mortgage Company, as Servicer, and Long Beach Securities Corp, as Depositor.
Agreements
LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2002-5 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2003-1 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2003-2 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2003-3 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2003-4 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2004-1 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2004-2 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2004-3 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2004-5 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2004-4 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2004-6 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2005-1 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2005-2 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2005-WL1 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2005-WL2 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2005-3 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2005-WL3 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-WL2 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-WL3 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-WL1 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-1 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-2 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-3 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-A LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-4 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-5 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-6 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-7 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-8 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-9 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-10 LONG BEACH MORTGAGE LOAN TRUST 2006-11
Dated
November 1, 2002
February 1, 2003
April 1, 2003
June1, 2003 July 1, 2003 February 1, 2004
May 1, 2004 June 1, 2004 August 1, 2004
September 1, 2004
October 1, 2004
January 1, 2005
April 1, 2005 July 1, 2005 August 1, 2005
September 1, 2005
November 1, 2005
January 1, 2006
January 1, 2006
January 1, 2006
February 1, 2006
March 1, 2006 April 1, 2006
May 1, 2006
May 1, 2006
June 1, 2006
July 1, 2006
August 1, 2006
September 1, 2006
October 1, 2006
November 1, 2006
December 1, 2006

12187
VOL 0 75 5 PAGE 25 5 9
EXHIBIT B
Retum To: 2210 Enterprise Drive Doc Ops - MS SC00140 Florence. SC 29501
LandSel Title Agency, Inc. 525 Metro Place North Dubên OH 43017 Redacted
200600043145 Filed for Record in DELAWARE COUNTY, OHIO ANDREU O BRENNER 12-12-2006 At 11:09 am. MORT GASE 140.00 OR Book 755 Page 2559 - 2574
200600043145 LANDRESOURCE TITLE AGENCY 525 METRO PL # DUBLIN ON 43017
(Space Ahora This Line For Recording Deta)- MORTGAGE
DEFINITIONS
Words used in multiple sections of this document are defined below and other words are defined in Sections 3, 11, 13, 18, 20 amd 21. Certain rules regarding the usage of words used in this document are also provided in Section 16.
(B) "Borrower" is Alanda Ross And John B. Harris, WIE A
(A) "Security Instrument" means this document, which is dated November 20. 2006 together with all Riders to this document. BOTH UNMARRIED - AQ
Borrower is the mortgagor umoder this Security Instrument. (C) "Lender" is Washington Mutual Bank
Lender isa federal association organized and existing under the laws of the United States Lender's address is 1400 South Douglass Road. Suite 100. Anaheim. CA 92806
Lender is the mortgagee under this Security Instrument. (D) "Note" moans the promissory note signed by Borrower and dated November 20, 2006 The Note states that Borrower owea Lender Two Hundred Sixty Five Thousand Five Hundred and No/100
(U.S. $265,500.00 ) plus interest. Borrower has promised to pay this debt in regular Periodic
Payments and to pay the debt in full not later than December 1, 2036
Redacted
CHIO-Single Family-fannie MaeFreddie Mac WWWFORM INSTRUMENT
Form 3038 1/01
Redacted
-6(OH) (0406).07
CROH
Dollars

VOL 0 75 5 PAGE 2560
(E) "Property" means the property that is described below under the headimg "Transfer of Rights in the Property."
(F) "Loan" means the debt evidenced by the Note, plus interest, any prepayment charges and lace charges due under the Note, and all sums due under dois Security Instrument, phis interest.
(G) "Riders" means all Riders to this Security Instrument that are excented by Borrower. The following Riders are to be executed by Borrower (check box as applicable]:
Adjunable Rate Rider
Condominium Rider
Second Home Rider
Balloon Rider
Planned Unit Development Rider
1-4 Family Rider
VA Rider
Biweekly Payment Rider
Other(s) [specify]
(H) "Applicable Law" means all controlling applicable federal, state and local statutes, regulations, ordinances and administrative rules and orders (that have the effect of law) as well as all applicable final, non-appealable judicial opinions ..
(D "Community Association Dues, Rees, and Assessments" means all dues, fees, assessments and other charges that are imposed on Borrower of the Property by a condominium association, homeowners association or similar organizadon.
(D) "Electronic Funds Transfer" means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by check, draft, or similar paper instrument, which is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephonic instrument, computer, or magnetic tape so as to order, instruct, er authorize a financial institution m debit or credit an account. Such term includes, but is not limited to, point-of-sale transfers, automated teller machine. transactions, transfers initiated by telephone, wire transfers, and automated clearinghouse transfers.
(K) "Recrow Items" means those items that are described in Section 3.
(L) "Miscellaneous Proceeds" means any compensation, settlement, award of damages, or proceeds paid by any third party (other than insurance proceeds paid under the coverages described in Section 5) for: (1) damage to, or destruction of, the Property; (#) condemnation or other taking of all or any part of the Property; (ii) conveyance in lieu of condemnation; or (iv) misrepresentations of, or omissions as to, the vale and/or condition of the Property.
(M) "Mortgage Insurance" means insurance protecting Lender against the nompayment of, or default on, this Laim.
(N) "Periodic Payment" means the regularly scheduled amount due for (1) principal and interest under the Note, plus (ii) any amounts under Section 3 of this Security Instroment.
(O) "RESPA" means the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. Section 260) et seq.) and its implementing regulation, Regulation X (24 C.P.R. Part 3500), as they might be amended from time to time, or any additional or successor legislation or regulation that governs the same subject matter. As used in this Security lustrument, "RESPA" refers to all requirements and restrictions that are imposed in regard! to a "federally related mortgage loan" even if the Loan does not qualify as a "federally related mor gage loan" under RESPA.
(P) "Successor In Interest of Borrower" means any party that has taken tide to the Property, whether or not that party has assumed Borrower's obligations under the Note andl'or this Security Instrument.
Redacted
-B(OH) 10401101
Forn 3030 1/01

VOL 0 75 5 PAGE 2 5 6 1
:
TRANSFER OF RIGHTS IN THE PROPERTY
This Security Instrument secures to Lender: (1) the repayment of the Loan, and all renewals. extensions and modifications of the Note; and (ii) the performance of Borrower's covenants and agreements under this Security Instrument and the Note. For this purpose, Borrower doos hereby mortgage, grant and convey to Lender the following described property located in the County of DELAWARE :
( Type of Recording Jurisdiction] [NumDe of Recerding Jurisdiction] Legal Description Attached Hereto And Made A Part Hereof
Parcel ID Number: 319-422-02-030-000 762 Bovee Lane
which currently has the address of
[Street]
Powell
[Civ), Ohio 43065
{"Property Address"):
TOGETHER WITH all the improvements now or hereafter erected on the property, and all casememe, apportecances, and fixtures now or hereafter a part of the property. All replacements and additions shall also be covered by chis Security Instrument. All of the foregoing is referred to in this Security Instrument as the "Property."
BORROWER COVENANTS chat Borrower is lawfully seised of the estate hereby conveyed and has the right to mortgage, grant and convey the Property and that the Property is unencumbered, except for ancombrances of record. Borrower warrants and will defend generally the title to the Property against all claims and demands, subject to amy encumbrances of record.
THIS SECURITY INSTRUMENT combines uniform covenants for national use and non-uniform covenants with limited variations by jurisdiction to constitute a uniform security instrument covering real property.
UNIFORM COVENANTS. Borrower and Lender covenant and agree as follows:
1. Payment of Principal, Interest, Escrow Items, Prepayment Charges, and Late Charges. Borrower shall pay when dne the principal of, and imerest on, the debt evidenced by the Note and any prepayment charges and late charges due under the Note. Borrower shall also pey fonds for Escrow Items pursuant to Section 3. Payments due under the Note and this Security Instrument shall be made in U.S. currency. However, if any check or other instrument received by Lender as payment under 's Ne
Redacted
Initiate:
-0(OH) 104051.01
Paga 3 / 10
Form 3038 1/1
..

VOL 0 755 PAGE 256 2
Exhibit A
. Situated in the County of Delaware, the State of Ohio, and in the City of Powell:
Being Lot Number One Thousand Four Hundred Twenty-one (1421), in POWELL PLACE PHASE I, as the same is numbered and delineated upon the recorded plat thereof, of record in Plat Cabinet 1, Slides 232 and 233, Recorder's Office of Delaware: County.

VGL 0 755 PAN 2563
..
Security Instrument is returned to Lender unpaid, Lender may require that any or all subsequent payments due tinder the Note and this Security Instrument be made in one or more of the following forms, as selected by Lander: (a) cash; (b) money order; (c) certified check, bank check, treasurer's check os cashier's check, provided any such check is drawn opon an institution whose deposirs are ingured by a federal agency, instrumentality, or entity; or (d) Electronic Funds Transfer.
Payments axe doomed received by Lender when received at the location designated in the Note or at such other location as may be designated by Lander in accordance with the notice provisions in Section 15. Lender may return any payment or partial payment if the payment or partial payments are insufficient to bring the Loan current. Lender may accept any payment of partial payment insufficient to bring the Loan current, without waiver of any rights bereunder or prejudice in its rights to refuse such payment or partial payzuents in the future, but Lender is not obligated to apply such payments at the time such payments are accepted. If each Periodic Payment is applied as of is scheduled due date, then Lender need not pay interest on tinapplied funds. Lender may hold such mapplied funds trail Borrower makes payment to bring the Loan current. If Borrower does not do so within a reasonable period of time, Lender shall either apply soch funds or return them to Borrower. If not applied cartier, such funds will be applied to the outstanding principal balance under the Note immediately prior to foreclosure. No offset or claim which Borrower might have now or in the future against Lender shall relieve Borrower from making payments due under the Note and this Security Instrument or performing the covenants and agreements secured by this Security Instrument.
2. Application of Payments or Proceeds. Except as otherwise described in this Section 2, ali payments accepted and applied by Lender shall be applied in the following order of priority: (a) interest due under the Note; (b) principal due under the Note; (c) amounts due under Section 3. Such payments shall be applied to each Periodic Payment in the order in which it became due. Any remaining amounts shali be applied fust to late charges, second to any other amounts due under this Security Instrument, and then to reduce the principal balance of the Note.
If Lender receives a payment from Borrower for a delinquent Periodic Payment which includes a sufficient amount to pay any late charge due, the payment may be applied to the delinquent payment and the late charge. If more than one Periodic Payment is outstanding, Lender may apply any payment received from Borrower to the repayment of the Periodic Payments if, and to the extent that, each payment can be paid in full .. To the extent that any excess exists after the payment is applied to the full payment of one or more Periodic Payments, such excess may be applied to any late charges de. Voluntary prepaymenti shall be applied first to any prepayment charges and then as described in the Note.
Any application of payments, insurance proceeds, or Miscellaneous Proceeds to principal due under the Note shall not extend or postpone the due date, or change the amount, of the Periodic Payments.
3. Funds for Escrow Items. Borrower shall pay to Lender on the day Periodic Payments are due under the Note, until the Note is paid in full, a sum (the "Funds") to provide for payment of amounts due for: (a) taxes and assessments and other items which can attain priority over this Security Insurunterit as a lien or encumbrance on the Property; (b) leasehold payments or ground rents on the Property, if any: (c) premiums for any and all insurance required by Lender under Section 5; and (d) Mortgage Insurance premiums, if any, or any soms payable by Borrower to Lender in lien of the payment of Mortgage Insurance premiums in accordance with the provisions of Section 10. These items are called "Escrow Items. " At origination or at any time during the term of the Loan, Lender may require that Community Association Dues, Fees, and Assessments, if any, be escrowed by Borrower, and such dues, fees and assessments shall be an Escrow Item. Borrower shall promptly furnish to Lender all notices of amounts to be paid under this Section. Borrower shall pay Lender the Funds for Bscrow Items umless Lender waives Borrower's obligation to pay the Funds for any or all Escrow Items. Leader may waive Borrower's
Redacted
ĐIƠN) 10490.01
Form 3038 1/01
...-

VOL 0755 PAGE2564
:
obligation to pay to Lender Funds for any or all Escrow Items at any time. Any such waiver may only be in writing. In the event of such waiver, Borrower shall pay directly, when and where payable, the amounts due for any Bscrow Items for which payment of Funds has been waived by Lender and, if Leider requires, shall furnish to Lender receipts evidencing such payment within such time period as Lender may require. Borrower's obligation to make such payments and oo provide receipts shall for all purposes be deemed to be a covenant and agreement contained in this Security Instrument, as the phrase "covenant and agreement" is used in Section 9. If Borrower is obligated to pay Escrow Items directly, parsuant to a waiver, and Borrower fails to pay the amount due for an Escrow Item, Lender may exercise its rights under Sectkm 9 and pay such amount and Borrower thall then be obligated under Section 9 to repay to Lender any such amount. Lender may revoke the waiver as to any of all Escrow Items at any time by a notice given in accordance with Section 15 and, upon such revocation, Borrower shall pay to Lender all Funds, and in. such amounts, that are then required under this Section 3.
Lender may, at any time, collect and hold Fonds in an amount (a) sufficient to permit Lender to apply the Funds at the time specified under RESPA, and (b) not to exceed the maximum amount a lender can require under RESPA. Lender shall estimate the amount of Funds due on the basis of current data and reasonable estimates of expenditures of future Escrow Items or otherwise in accordance with Applicable Law.
The Funds shall be held in an institution whose deposits are insured by a federal agency, instrumentality, or entity (mchiding Lender, if Lender is an tistittion whose deposits are so insured) or in any Federal Home Loan Bank. Lender shall apply the Funds to pay the Escrow Items no later than the time specified under RESPA. Lender shall not charge Berrower for holding and applying the Fonds, annually analyzing the escrow acconm, or verifying the Escrow Items, unless Lender pays Borrower interest on the Funds and Applicable Law permits Lender to make such a charge. Unless an agreement is made in writing or Applicable Law requires interest to be paid on the Funds, Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower any interest or earnings on the Funds. Borrower and Leader can agree in writing, however, that juterest shall be paid on the Funds. Lender shall give to Borrower, without charge, an animal accounting of the Punds as required by RESPA.
If there is a surplus of Ponds held in escrow, as defined under RBSPA, Lender shall account to Borrower for the excess funds in accordance with RESPA. If there is a shortage of Funds held in escrow; as defined under RBSPA, Lender shall notify Borrower as required by RBSPA, and Borrower stall pay to Lender the amount necessary to make up the shortage in accordance with RESPA, but in no more than 12 monthly payments. If there is a deficiency of Funds held in escrow, as defined under RESPA, Lender shall notify Borrowar as required by RESPA, and Borrower shall pay to Lender the amount necessary to make up the deficiency in accordance with RESPA, but in no more than 12 monthly payments.
Upon payment in full of all soms secared by this Security Instrument, Lender shall promptly refund to Borrower any Funds held by Lender.
4. Charges; Liens. Borrower shall pay all taxes, assessments, charges, fines, and impositions attributable to the Property which can attain priority over this Security Instrument, leaschold payments or ground remes on the Property, if any, and Community Association Dues, Poes, and Assessments, if any. To the extent that these items are Escrow Items, Borrower shall pay them in the manner provided in Section 3.
Borrower shall promptly discharge any lien which has priority over this Security Instrument unless Borrower: (a) agrees in writing to the payment of the obligation secured by the lien in a manner acceptable to Lender, but only so long as Borrower is performing such agreement; (b) contests the lien in good faith by, or defends against enforcement of the lion in, legal proceedings which in Lender's opinion operate to prevent the enforcement of the fien while those proceedings are pending, but only until such proceeding's are concluded; or (4) secures from the holder of the Hen an agreement satisfactory to Lender subordinating the lien to this Security Instrument. If Lender determines that any part of the Property is subject to a lien which can attain priority over this Security Instrument, Leader may give Borrower a notice identifying the
Redacted
Form 3038 1/01
0 ....

.
lien Within 10 days of the date on which that notice is given, Borrower shall satisfy the lien or take one or more of the actions set forth above in this Section 4. Lender may require Borrower to pay a one -time charge for a real estate tax verificacion and/or reporting service used by Leader in connection with this Loan.
5. Property Insurance. Borrower shall keep the improvements now existing or hereafter erected on the Property insured against loss by fire, hazards included within the term "extended coverage," and any other hazards including, but not limited to, earthquakes and floods, for which Lender requires insurance. This insurance shall be maintained in the amounts (including deductible levels) and for the periods that Lender requires. What Lender requires pursuant to the preceding semences can change during the term of the Loan, The Insurance cartier providing, the insurance shall be chosen by Borrower subject to Lender's right to disapprove Borrower's choice, which right shall not be exercised unreasonably. Lendet may require Borrower to pay, in connection with this Loan, either: (a) a one-time charge for flood zone determination, certification and tracking services; or (b) a one-time charge for flood zone determination and certification services and subsequent charges each time remappings or similar changes occur which reasonably might affect such determination or certification. Borrower shall also be responsible for the payment of any fees imposed by the Federal Eriergency Management Agency in connection with the review of any flood zone determination resulting from an objection by Borrower.
If Borrower fails to maintain any of the coverages described above, Lender may obtain insurance coverage, at Lender's option and Borrower's expense. Lender is umder no obligation to purchase any particular type or amount of coverage. Therefore, such coverage shall cover Lender, but might or might not protect Borrower, Borrower's equity in the Property, or the contents of the Property, against any rist, harard or fiability and might provide greater or lesser coverage than was previously in effect. Borrower acknowledges that the cost of the insurance coverage so obtained might significantly exceed the cost of insurance that Borrower could have obtained .. Any amounts disbursed by Lender under this Section 5 shall become additional debt of Borrower secured by this Security Instrument, These amounts shall bear interest at the Note rate from the date of distruirsement and shall be payable, with such interest, upon notice from Lender to Borrower requesting payment.
All insurance policies required by Lender and renewals of such policies shall be subject to Lender's right to disapprove such policies, shall include a standard mortgage cimusz, and shall mame Lender as mortgagee and/or as an additional loss payce. Lender shall have the right to hold the policies and renewal certificates. If Lender requires, Borrower shall promptly give to Lender all receipts of paid premiums and renewal notices. If Borrower obtains any form of insurance coverage, not otherwise required by Lender, for damage to, or destruction of, the Property, such policy shall incinde a standard mortgage clause and shall name Lender as mortgagec and/or as an additional loss payee.
In the event of loss. Borrower shall give prompt notice to the insurance carrier and Lender. Lender may make proof of loss if not made promptly by Borrower. Unless Lender and Borrower otherwise agree in writing, any insurance proceeds, whether or not the underlying insurance was required by Lender, shall be applied to restoration or repair of the Property, if the restoration or repair is economically feasible and Lender's security is pot lessened. During such repair and restoration period, Lender shall have the right to hold such insurance proceeds until Lender has had an opportunity to inspect such Property to ensure the work has been completed to Lander's satisfaction, provided that such inspection shall be undertaken promptly. Lender may disburse proceeds for the repairs and restoration in a single payment or in a series of progress payments as the work is completed. Unless an agreement is made in writing of Applicable Law requires interest to be paid on such insurance proceeds, Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower any interest or earnings on such proceeds. Fees for public adjusters, or other third parties, retained by Borrower shall not be paid out of the inenrance proceeds and shall be the sole obligation of Borrower. If the restoration or repair is not economically feasible or Lender's security would be lessened, the insurance proceeds shall be applied to the sums secured by this Security Instrument, whether or not then due. with
. .....
Redacted
-8(OH) 10ksJ.01
Form 3036 1/01
.
....... ... .
.. . ... ...... ........
.
.
.
C
VOL 0 7 5 5 PAGE 2 5 6 5
.

.
VOL 0 75 5 PADE 2 5 6 6
the excess, if any, paid to Borrower. Such insurance proceeds shall be applied in the order provided for in Section 2. If Borrower abandons the Property, Lender may file, negotiate and seule any available insurance claim and related matters. If Borrower does not respond within 30 days to a modce from Lender that the insurance carrier has offered to settle a claim, then Lender may negotiate and settle the claim. The 30-day period will begin when the notice is given. In either event, or if Lender acquires the Property under Section.22 or otherwise, Borrower hereby assigns to Lender (2) Borrower's rights to any insurance proceeds in an amount not to exceed the amounts unpaid under the Note at this Security Instrument, and (b) any other of Borrower's rights (other than the right to any refund of unearned premiums paid by Borrower) under all insurance policies covering the Property, incofar as such rights are applicable to the coverage of the Property. Lender may use the insurance proceeds either to repair of restore the Property or to pay amounts unpaid under the Note of this Security Instrument, whether or not then due.
6. Occupancy. Borrower shall occupy, establish, and use the Property as Borrower's principal residence within 60 days after the execution of this Security Instrument and shall contime to occupy the Property as Borrower's principal residence for at least one year after the date of occupancy, unless Lender otherwise agrees in writing, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, or unless extemating circumstances exist which are beyond Borrower's controi.
7. Preservation, Maintenance and Protection of the Property; Inspections. Borrower shall not destroy, damage or impsir the Property, allow the Property to deteriorate or commit waste on the Property. Whether or not Borrower is residing in the Property, Borrower shall maintain the Property in order to prevent the Property from deteriorating or decreasing in value due to its condition. Unless it is determined pursuant to Section 5 that repair or restoration is not economically feasible, Borrower xball promptly repair the Property if damaged to avoid further deterioration or damage. If insurance or condemnation proceeds are paid in connection with damage to, or the taking of, the Property, Borrower shall be responsible for repairing or restoring the Property only if Lender has released proceeds for such purposes. Lender may disburse proceeds for the repairs and restoration in a single payment or in a series of progress payments as the work is completed. If the insurance or condemnation proceeds are not sufficient to repair or restore the Property, Borrower is not relieved of Borrower's obligation for the completion of such repair or restoration.
Lender or its agent may make reasonable entries upon and inspections of the Property. If it has reasonable cause, Lender may inspect the interior of the improvements on the Property. Lender shall give Borrower notice at the time of or prior to such an interior inspection specifying such reasonable canse.
8. Borrower's Loan Application. Borrower shall be in default if, during the Loan application process, Borrower or any persons or entities acting at the direction of Borrower or with Borrower's knowledge or consent gave materially false, misleading, or inaccurate information or statements to Lender (or failed to provide Lender with material information) in connection with the Loan. Material representations inchide, but are not limited to, representations concerning Borrower's occupancy of the Property as Borrower's principal residence.
9. Protection of Leader's Interest In the Property and Rights Under this Security Instrument. If (a) Borrower fails to perform the covenants and agreemente contained in this Security Instrument, (b) there is a legal proceeding that might significantly affect Lender's interest in the Property and/or rights under this Security Instrument (such as a proceeding in bankruptcy, probate, for condemnation or forfeiture, for enforcement of a fien which may attain priority over this Security Instrument or to enforce Laws of regulations), or (c) Borrower has abandoned the Property, thon Lender may do and pay for whatever is reasomable or appropriate to protect Lender's interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument, including protecting and/or assessing the value of the Property, and securing and/or repairing the Property. Lender's actions can include, but are not limited to: (a) paying any sums secured by'a lien which has priority over this Security Instrument; (b) appearing in court and (c) paying reasonable
Redacted
Form 3036 1/01
.
.. ...
... ...

YOL 0 75 5 PANE 2567
attorneys' fees to protect its interest in the Property and/or rights under this Security Instrument, including its secured position in a bankruptcy proceeding. Securing the Property includes, but is not limited to, entering the Property to make repairs, change locks, replace or board up doors and windows, drain water from pipes, eliminate building or other code violations or dangerous conditions, and have utilities turned on or off. Alfrough Lender may take action under this Section 9, Lender does not have to do so and is not under any duty or obligation to do so. It is agreed that Lender incurs no liability for not taking any or ali actions authorized under this Seccion 9.
Any amounts distoused by Lender under this Section 9 shall become additional debt of Borrower secured by this Security Instrument. These amounts shall bear interest at the Note rate from the date of disbursement and shall be payable, with such interest, upon notice from Lender to Borrower requesting payment.
If fois Security Instrument is on a leasehold, Borrower shall comply with all the provisions of the lease. If Borrower acquires fee title to the Property, the leasehold and the fee title shall not merge umless Lender agrees to the merger in writing.
10. Mortgage Insurance. If Lender required Mortgage Insurance as a condition of making the Loan, Borrower shall pay the premiums required to maintain the Mortgage Insurance in effect. If, for any reason, the Mortgage Insurance coverage required by Lender ceases to be available from the mortgage insurer that previously provided such insurance and Borrower was required to make separately designated payments toward the premiumis for Mortgage Insurance, Borrower shall pay the premiums required to obtain coverage substantially equivalent to the Mortgage Insurance previously in effect, at a cost substantially equivalent to the cost to Borrower of the Mortgage Insurance previously in effect, from an alternate mortgage insurer selected by Lender. If substantially equivalent Mortgage Insurance coverage is not available. Borrower shall continue to pay to Lender the amount of the separately designated payments that were due when the insurance coverage ceased to be in effect. Lender will accept, use and retain those payments as a non-refundable loss reserve in lieu of Mortgage Insurance. Such loss reserve shall be non-refundable, notwithstanding the fact that the Loan is ultimately paid in full, and Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower any interest or earnings on such loss reserve. Lender can no longer require loss reserve payments if Mortgage Insurance coverage (im the amount and for the period dhat Lender requires) provided by an insurer selected by Lender again becomes available, is obtained, and Lender requires separately designated payments toward the premints for Mortgage Insurance. If Lender required Mortgage Insurance as a condition of making the Loan and Borrower was required to make separately designated payments toward the pretimes for Mortgage Insurance, Borrower shall pay the premiums required to maintain Mortgage Insurance in effect, or to provide a non-refundable loss reserve, until Lender's requirement for Mortgage Insurance ends in accordance with any written agreement between Borrower and Lender providing for sach termination or until termination is required by Applicable Law. Nothing in this Section 10 affects Borrower's obligation to pay interest at the rate provided in the Note.
.
:
:
Mortgage Insurance reimburses Lender (or any entity that purchases the Note) for certain losses it may incur if Borrower does not repay the Loan as agreed. Borrower is ont a party to the Mortgage Insurance.
Mortgage insurers evaluate their total risk on all such insurance in force from time to time, and may enter into agreements with other parties that share or modify their risk, or reduce losses. These agreements are on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the mortgage imgurer and the other party (or parties) to these agreements. These agreements may require the mortgage insurer to make payments using any source of funds that the mortgage insurer may have available (which may include funds obtained from Mortgage Insurance promiamis).
As a result of these agreements, Lender, any purchaser of the Note, another insurer, any reinsurer, any other einity, or any affiliate of any of the foregoing, may receive (directly or indirectly) amounts that derive from (or might be characterized as) a portion of Borrower's payments for Mortgage Insurance, in
Redacted
-((OH) 104061.01
Pope 3 / 16
Form 3038 1/01
.... ... ...
....
. ..

VOLO 755 PAGE 256 8
........
exchange for sharing or modifying the mortgage insurer's risk, or reducing losses. If soch agreement provides that an affiliate of Lender takes a shore of the insurer's tisk in exchange for a share of the premiums paid to the ingurer, the arrangement is often termed "captive reinsurance. " Purther:
(a) Any such agreements will not affect the amounts that Borrower has agreed to pay for Mortgage Insurance, or any other terms of the Loan. Such agreements will not becrease the amount Borrower wil owe for Mortgage Insurance, and they will not entitle Borrower to any refund.
(b) Any such agreements will not affect the rights Borrower has - V any . with respect to the Mortgage Insurance under the Homeowners Protection Act of 1998 or any other law. These rights may Include the right to receive cercato disclosures, to request and obtain cancellation of the Mortgage Insurance, to have the Mortgage Insurance terminated automatically, and/or to receive a refond of any Mortgage Insurance premiums that were unearned at the dine of such cancellation or tar inination.
11. Assignment of Miscellaneous Proceedr; Forfeitura. All Miscellaneous Proceeds are hereby assigned to and shall be paid to Lender.
If the Property is damaged, such Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied to restoration or repair of the Property, in the restoration or repair is economically feasible and Lender's security is not lessened. During such repair and restoration period, Lender shall have the right to hold such Miscellancour Proceeds until Lender has had an opportunity to inspect such Property to ensure the work has been completed to Lender's satisfaction, provided that such inspection shall be undertaken prompdy. Lender may pay for the repairs and restoration in a single disbursement or in a series of progress payments as the work is corepleted. Unless an agreement is made in writing or Applicable Law requires interest to be paid on such Miscellaneous Proceeds, Lender shall not be required to pay Borrower any interest or camings on such Miscellaneous Proceeds. If the restoration or repair is not economically feasible or Lender's security would be lessened, the Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied to the sums secured by this Security Instrument, whether or not then due, with the excess, if any, paid to Borrower. Such Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied in the order provided for in Section 2,
In the event of a total taking, destruction, or loss in value of the Property, the Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied to the sums secured by this Security Instrument, whether or not then due, with the excess, if any, paid to Borrower.
In the event of s partial taking, destruction, or loss in value of the Property in which the fair market valne of the Property immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or loss in value is equal to or greater than the amount of the suis secured by this Security Instrument immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or loss in value, unless Borrower and Lender otherwise agree in writing, the sums secured by this Security Instrument shall be reduced by the amount of the Miscellaneous Proceeds mintiplied by the following fraction: (a) the total amount of the sums secured immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or lom in valne divided by (b) the fair market value of the Property immediately before the partisi taking, destruction, or loss in vahic. Any balance shall be paid to Borrower.
In the event of a partial taking, destruction, or loss in value of the Property in which the fair market value of the Property immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or loss in value is less than the amount of the sunis secured immediately before the partial taking, destruction, or loss in valne, unless Borrower and Lender otherwise agree in writing, the Miscellaneous Proceeds shall be applied to the sums secured by this Security Instrument whether or not the sums are then due.
If the Property is abandoned by Borrower, or if, after notice by Lender to Borrower that the Opposing Party (as defined in the next sentence) offers to make an award to settle a claim for damages, Borrower fails to respond to Lender within 30 days after the date the notice is given, Lender is authorized to collect and apply the Miscellaneous Proceeds either to restoration or repair of the Property or to de sams secured by this Security Instrument, whether or not then due. "Opposing Party" means the third party that owes Borrower Miscellaneous Proceeds or the party against whom Borpower has i right of action in regard to Miscellaneous Proceeds.
Redacted
Page D of 15
Form 2036 1/03
-
... ......
-----------

.
VOL O 75 5 PAGE 25 6 9
.....
Borrower shall be in default if any action or proceeding, whether civil or criminal, is begon that, in Lender's judgment, could result in forfeitite of the Property or other material Impairment of Lender's interest in the Property or rigtits under this Security Instrument. Borrower can cure such a default and. If neceleration has occurred, reinstate as provided in Section 19, by cansing the action or proceeding to be digmissed with a ruling that, in Lendet's judgment, preciados forfeiture of the Property or other material impairment of Lender's interest in the Property or rights under this Security Instrument. The proceeds of any award or claim for damages that are atributable to the impairment of Lender's interest in the Property are hereby assigned and shall be paid to Leader.
All Miscellaneous Proceeds that are not applied to restoration or repair of the Property shall be applied in the order provided for in Section 2.
12. Borrower Not Released; Forbearance By Lender Not a Waiver. Extension of the time for payment or modification of amortization of the sum seemed by this Security Instrument granted by Lender to Borrower or any Successor in Interest of Borrower shall not operate to release the Hability of Borrower or any Successors in Interest of Borrower. Lender shall not be required to commence proceedings against any Successor in Interest of Borrower or to refuse to extend dime for payment or otherwise modity amortization of the sums secared by this Security Instrument by reason of any demind made by the original Borrower or any Successors in Interest of Borrower. Any forbearance by Lender in exercising any right or remedy including, without limitation, Lender's acceptance of payments from duird persons, entities or Successors in Interest of Borrower or in amounts less than the amount then due, shall not be a waiver of or preclude the exercise of any right or remedy.
13. Joint and Several Liability; Co-signers; Successors and Assigns Bored. Borrower covenants and agrees that Borrower's obligations and liability shall be joint and several. However, any Borrower who co-signs this Security Instrument but does not execute the Note (a "co-signer"): (a) is co-sipning this Security Ingarment only to mortgage, grant and convey the co-signer's interest in the Property under the terms of this Security Instrument; (b) is not personally obligated to pay the sums secured by this Security Instrument; and (c) agrees that Lender and any other Borrower can aFree to extend, modify, forbear or make any accommodations with regard to the terms of this Security Instrument or the Note without the co-signer's consent.
Subject to the provisions of Section 18, any Successor in Interest of Borrower who assumes Borrower's obligations under this Security Instrument in writing, and is approved by Lender, skall obtain all of Borrower's rights and benefits under this Security Instrument. Borrower shall not be released from Borrower's obligations and Liability under this Security Instrument unless Lender agrees to much release in writing. The covenants and agreements of this Security Instrument shall bind (except as provided in Section 20) and benefit the successors and assigns of Lender.
14. Loan Charges. Leuder may charge Borrower fees for services performed in connection with Borrower's default, for the purpose of protecting Lender's interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument, including, but not limited to, attorneys' fees, property inspection and valuation fees. In regard to any other fees, the absorie of express imthority in this Security Instrument to charge a specific. for to Borrower shall not be construed as a prohibition on the charging of ruch fee. Lender may rot charge fees that are expressly prohibited by this Security Instrument or by Applicable Law.
If the Loan is subject to a law which sets maximum loan charges, and that law ix finally interpreted so that the interest or other Joan charges collected or to be collected in connection with the Loan exceed the permitted limits, then: (a) any such loan charge shall be reduced by the amount necessary to reduce the charge to the permitted limit; and (b) any sums already collected from Borrower which exceeded permitted limits will be refunded to Borrower. Lender may choose to make this refund by reducing the principal owed under the Note or by making a direct payment to Borrower. If a refund reduces principal, the reduction wil be treated as a partial prepayment without any prepayment charge (whether or not a
Redacted
Form 3036 1/01
....
-

prepayment charge is provided for under the Note). Borrower's acceptance of any such refund made by direct payment to Borrower will constitute a waiver of any right of action Borrower might have arising out of such byarcharge.
15. Notices. All notices given by Borrower or Lender in connection with this Security Instrument must be in writing. Any notice to Borrower in connection with this Security Instrument shall be deemed to have been given to Borrower when mailed by first class mail or when actually delivered to Borrower's notice address if sent by other means. Notice to any one Borrower shall constitute notice to all Borro wers unless Applicable Law expressly requires otherwise, The notice address shall be the Property Address unless Borrower bes designated a substitute notice address by notice to Lender. Borrower shall promptly notify Lender of Bozzower's change of address. If Lender specifies a procedure for reporting Borrower's change of address, then Borrower shall only report a change of address through that specified procedure. There may be only one designated notice address under this Security lustrument at any one time. Any notice to Lender shall be given by delivering it or try mailing it by first class matt to Lender's address stated herein unless Lender has designated another address by notice to Borrower. Any notice in connection with this Security Instrument shall not be deemed to have been given to. Lender natil actually received by Lender, If any notice required by this Security Instrument is also required under Applicable Law, the Applicable Law requirement will satisfy the corresponding requirement cinder imis Security Instrument.
:
. . .....
16. Governing Law; Severability; Rules of Construction. This Security Instrument shall be governed by federal law and the law of the jurisdiction in which the Property is located. All rights and obligations contained in this Security Instrument are subject to any requirements and limitations of Applicable Law. Applicable Law might explicitly or implicitly allow the parties to agree by contract or it might be silent, but sach silence shall not be construed as a prohibition against agreement by contract. In the event that any provision or clause of this Security Instrument or the Note conflicts with Applicable Law, such conflict shall not affect ether provisions of this Security Instrument or the Note which can be given effect without the conflicting provision.
As used in this Security Instrument: (a) words of the masculine gender shali mean and incinde corresponding beuter words or words of the feminine gender; (b) words in the singular shan mean and incinde the plural and vice versa; and (c) the word "may" gives sole discretion without any obligation to take any action.
...
17. Borrower's Copy. Borrower shall be given one copy of the Note and of this Security Instrument. 18. Transfer of the Property or a Beneficial Interest in Borrower. As used in this Section 18, "Interest in the Property" means any legal or beneficial interest in the Property, including, but not limited to, those beneficial interests transferred in a bond for deed, contract for deed, installment sales contrast or escrow agreement, the intent of which is the transfer of title by Borrower at a future date to a purchaser.
If all or any part of the Property or amy Interest in the Property is sold or transferied (or if Rotrower is not a natural person and a beneficial interest in Borrower is sold or transferred) without Lender's prior written consent, Lender may require immediate payment in full of all sumy secured by this Security Histrument. However, this option shall not be exercised by Lender if such exercise is prohibited by Applicable Law.
if Lender exercises this option, Lender shall give Borrower notice of acceleration, The notice shall provide a period of not less than 30 days from the date the notice is given in accordance with Section 15 wiftin which Borrower must pay all sums secured by this Security Instrument. If Borrower falla to pay these sums prior to the expiration of this period, Lender may invoke any remedies permitted by this Security Instrument without further notice or demand on Borrower.
19. Borrower's Right to Relostate After Acceleration. If Borrower meets certain conditions, Borrower shall have the right to have enforcement of this Security Instrument discontimed at any time prior to the earliest of: (a) five days before sale of the Property pursuant to any power of sale contained in
Redacted
Intutela: AOL
8(DH) (54051.01
Form 3036 1/01
.
.
.
.
VOL 0 7 5 5 PAGE 2 5 7 0
..... . .

---
VOL 0 755 PAN 2571
....
this Security Instrument; (b) such other period as Applicable Law might specify for the tecoination of Borrower's right to zerostate; or (e) entry of a judgment enforcing this Security Instrument. Those conditions are that Borrower: (a) pays Lender all sums which then would be due uder this Security Instrument and the Note as if no acceleration bad occurred; (b) cures any default of any other covenants or agreements; (c) pays all expenses incured in enforcing this Security Instrument, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees, property inspection and valuation fees, and other fees incurred for the purpose of protecting Lender's interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument; and (d) takes such action as Lender may reasonably require to assure that Lender's interest in the Property and rights under this Security Instrument, and Borrower's obligation to pay the sums secured by his Security Instrument, shall continue unchanged, Lender may require that Borrower pay such reinstatement sums and expenses in one or more of the following terms, as selected by Lander: (a) cash; (b) money order; (c) certified check, bank check, treasurer's check or cashier's check, provided any such check is drawn upon an institutirm whose deposits are incured by a federal agency, instrumentality or entity; or (d) Electronic Punds Transfer. Upon reinstatement by Borrower, this Security Lostrument and obligations secured bereby shall remain fully effective as if no acceleration bad occurred. However, this right to reinstate shall not apply in the case of acceleration under Section 18.
20. Sale of Note; Change of Loan Servicer; Notice of Grievance. The Note or a partial interest in the Note (together with this Security Instrument) can be sold one or more time's without prior notice to Bormower. A gale might result in a change in the entity (crown as the "Loan Servicer ") that collects Periodic Payments due under the Note and this Security Lostroment and performs other mortgage loan servicing obligations under the Note, this Security Instrument, and Applicable Law. There aiso might be one or more changes of the Loan Servicer umrelated to a sale of the Note. If there is a change of the Loan Servicer, Borrower will be given written notice of the change which will state the name and address of the new Loan Servicez, the address to which payments should be made and any other information RESPA requires in connection with a notice of transfer of servicing. If the Note is sold and thereafter the Loan is serviced by a Loan Servicer other than the purchaser of the Note, the mortgage loan servicing obligations to Borrower will remain with the Loan Servicer or be transferred to a successor Loan Servicer and are not assumed by the Note purchaser unless otherwise provided by the Note purchaser.
:
Neither Borrower nar Lender may commento, join, or be joined to any judicial action (as either an individual lidipant or the member of a class) that arises from the other party's actions pursuam to this Security Instrument or that alleges that the other party has breached any provision of, or any duty owed by reason of, this Security Instrument, until such Bomower or Lender has notified the other party (with soch notice given in compliance with the requirements of Section 15) of such alleged breach and afforded the other party hereto a reasonable period after the giving of such notice to take corrective action. If Applicable Law provides a time period which must clapse before certain action can be taken, that time period will be deemed to be reasonable for purposes of this paragraph. The notice of acceleration and opportunity to cure given to Borrower porsuant to Section 22 and em notice of acceleration given to Borrower pursuant to Section 18 shall be deemed to satisfy the notice and opportunity to take corrective action provisions of this Section 20.
21. Hazardous Substances. As used in this Section 21: (2) "Hazardous Substances" ate those substances defined as toxic or hazardous substances, pollutants, or wastes by Environmental Law and the following substances: gasoline, kerosene, other flammable or toxic petroleum products, toxic pesticides and herbicides, volatile solvents, materials containing asbestos or formaldehyde, and radioactive materials; (b) "Environmental Law" means federal laws and laws of the jurisdiction where the Property is located that relate to health, safety or cuvironmentil protection; (c) "Environmental Cleanup" includes any response action, remedial action, or removal action, as defmed in Environmental Law; and (d) an "Environmental Condition" means a condition that can cause, contribute to, or otherwise trigger an Environmen! Cleamp.
Redacted
Page 12 +f 16
Form 3036 1/01

.
VOL 0 755 PAGE 2572
.
:
Borrower shall not cause or permit the presence, nsc, disposal, storage, or release of any Hazardous Substances, or threaten to release any Hazardous Substances, on or in the Property. Borrower shall not to. por allow anyone else to do, anything affecting the Property (a) that is in violation of any Environmental Law, (b) which creates an Buvironmental Condition, or (c) which, due to the presence, use, or release of a Hazardous Substance, creates a condition that adversely affects the value of the Property. The preceding two sentences ahil mot apply to the presence, use, of storage on the Property of small quantities of Hazardous Substances that are generally recognized to be appropriate to normal residential nses and to maintenance of the Property (including, but not limited to, bazindous subsouces in consumer products).
Borrower shall promptly give Lender written notice of (e) any investigation, claim, demand, lawsuit or other action by any governmental or regulatory agency os private party involving the Property and any Hazardons Substance or Boviromiemal Law of which Borrower has acmal knowledge. (b) any Environmental Condition, including but not limited to, any spilling, leaking, discharge, release or threat of release of any Hazardous Substance, and (c) any condition caused by the presence, use or release of. a Hazardous Substance which adversely affects the value of the Property. If Borrower learns, or is notified by any governmental or regulatory authority, or any private party, that any removal or other remediation af any Hazardous Substance affecting the Property is necescary, Borrower shall promptly tike all necessary remedial actions in accordance with Environmental Law. Nothing herein shall create any obligation on Lender for an Buvironmental Cicarum.
NON UNIFORM COVENANTS. Borrower and Lender further covenant and agree as follows:
22. Acceleration; Remedies. Lender shall give notice to Borrower prior to acceleration following Borrower's breach of any covenant or agreement in this Security Instrument (but pot prior to acceleration under Section 18 unless Applicable Law provides otherwise). The notice shall specify: (a) the default; (b) the action required to cure the default; (c) a date, not less than 30 days from the date the notice is given to Borrower, by which the default must be cured; and (d) that failure to cure the default on or before the date specified to the gotice may result in acceleration of the sums secured by this Security Instrument, foreclosure by judicial proceeding sud sale of the Property. The notice shall further taform Borrower of the right to rehistate after neceleration and the right to assert in the foreclosure proceeding the non-existence of a default or any other defense of Borrower to acceleration and foreclosure. If the default is not cured on or before the date specified in the notice, Lender at its option may remdre buimmediate payment to full of all sums secured by this Security Instrument without further demand and may foreclose this Security lustrument by judicial proceeding. Lender shall be entitled to collect all expenses incurred in pursuing the remedies provided in this Section 22, including, but not Mmsuited to, costs of title evidenec.
23. Release. Upon payment of all sums secured by chis Security Instrument, Leader shall discharge this Security Instrument. Borrower shall pay any recordation costs. Lender may charge Borrower a fee for releasing this Security Instrument, but only if the fee is paid to a third party for services rendered and the Charging of the fee is permitted under Applicable Law.
24. Certain Other Advances. In addition to any other sum secured hereby, this Security Instrumend shall also secure the umaid principal balance of, phes necroed interest on, any amount of money loaned, advanced or paid by Lender to or for the account and benefit of Borrower, sher this Security Instrument is delivered to and filed with the Recorder's Office, DELAWARE
County, Ohio, for recording, Lender may make such advances in order to pay any real estate taxes and assessments, insurance premiums phos all other costs and expenses insurmid in commection with the operation, proteccion or preservation of the Property, including to cure Borrower's defaults by making any such payments which Borrower should have paid as provided in this Security Instrument, it being intended by this Section 24 to acknowledge, affirm and comply with the provision of Section 5301.233 of the Revised Code of Obio.
AL
Redacted
Form 3036 1/01
-
...
.. . ....

VIL0 755 M# 2573
BY SIGNING BELOW, Borrower accepts and agrees to the terms and covenants contained in this Security Instrument and in any Rider executed by Borrower and recorded with it.
Wimesses:
- (Seal)
Alanda Ross
-Borrower
(Seal)
/John B Harris
-Borrower
...
(Scal) -Borrower
(Scal) -BOTTOWer
(Seal)
(Seal) -Borrower
-Porrower
(Seal) -Borrower
(Scal) -Borrower
Redacted
BIOH) 10-001.01
Pago 14 0/ 15
Form 3036 1/01
