Appellant Kathleen Talliere moves this Court to reconsider its decision that declined jurisdiction over her appeal. There is currently a homeless crisis in the United States and it is in the public interest to reduce the number of people on the streets by not permitting worngful foreclosures. In Appellant's case she discovered post judgment that the bank's affidavit contained a false document. Appellant was denied due process when the trial court refused to hold a hearing before denying her 60(B)(5) motion to vacate. Appellant Kathleen Talliere requests that this court to reconsider its decision and accept jurisdiction of her appeal. A memorandum is attached and incorporated herein.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Grace M. Doberdruk

Grace M. Doberdruk (0085547)

Law Office of Grace M. Doberdruk

5950 Mayfield Road

Cleveland, Ohio 44124

Telephone (440) 221-5437

Fax (440) 848-1616

grace.doberdruk@gmail.com

Counsel for Appellant Kathleen Talliere

MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT

I.  INTRODUCTION

Homelessness is becoming a crisis in America. The Ohio Housing Finance Agency's 2024 Report found that "Over 1 million Ohioans (8.8%) live in a household that spends at least half its income on housing, which puts them at risk of foreclosure or evictions." See Housing Insecurity (FY24) - Housing Needs Assessment | Ohio Housing Finance Agency (ohiohome.org)

Cuyahoga County, Ohio is one of the Top 10 counties in the United States for foreclosure filings. See Top 10 U.S. Counties with Greatest Numbers of Foreclosure Starts in April 2024 (attomdata.com) Appellant Kathleen Talliere's case was filed in Cuyahoga County. One of the factors that encourage foreclosure filings is when banks are not held accountable by courts for filing false documents.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development issued a report that found on a single night in January "more than 650,000 people were living in shelters or outside in tents or cars. That's up a whopping 12% from the year before." See Homelessness in the U.S. hit a record high last year: NPR

The same report discovered that 25% of the homeless are seniors. Appellant Kathleen Talliere is a senior citizen. See https://www.npr.org/homelessness-affordable-housing-crisis-rent- assistance

The homeless annual numbers count does not include all the people who are staying with family or friends, some after a foreclosure "and who may be at high risk of ending up on the street." See https://www.npr.org/homelessness-affordable-housing-crisis-rent-assistance

The report also found "housing and food remain much more expensive than just a few years ago" but only 1 in 4 people who are eligible actually get federally subsidized housing. See https://www.npr.org/homelessness-affordable-housing-crisis-rent-assistance

In April 2024 the Ohio State Senate released a statewide report that shows "the state's housing crisis is continuing to get worse." See Ohio housing report shows crisis, lawmakers propose solutions (news5cleveland.com)

"We can no longer be casual about this issue," said chairwoman of the committee and state Sen. Michele Reynolds (R-Canal Winchester). "It is a priority and we need to make it a priority because we're facing challenges that are increasingly getting worse."

"For every 100 people in the state, there are only 40 affordable units, according to the Coalition on Homelessness and Housing in Ohio's Executive Director Amy Riegel. That means the state is short about 267,000 affordable homes." See Ohio housing report shows crisis, lawmakers propose solutions (news5cleveland.com)

In California Governor Gavin Newsom "ordered officials to begin dismantling thousands of encampments. The move came after the US Supreme Court ruled last month in favor of an Oregon city that ticketed homeless people for sleeping outside." See What Gov. Gavin Newsom's order to clear homeless encampments means for the people who live in them | CNN "Governor Newsom, where do you expect people to go? This is a shameful moment in California history," said Michael Weinstein, president of the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, the parent organization of the Housing is a Human Right initiative.

The problem that California is experiencing with homlessness could be a similar issue in Ohio if the Courts and legislature do not act. The Opiod crisis was ignored until it was too late.

Last year Ohio again ranked as one of the Top 10 states for foreclosure with a foreclosure rate of 1 in every 955 housing units. See The 10 States With the Highest Foreclosure Rates in 2023 (propstream.com)

If this court accepts jurisdiction of Appellant Kathleen Talliere's appeal it could help reduce the homeless population by holding banks accountable and preventing people from being thrown out in the streets when a bank obtains a judgment of foreclosure with false documents.

Deutsche Bank got a judgment of foreclosure against Appellant Kathleen Talliere based on a note exhibit that had contradicted Deutsche Bank's previous sworn statements in other courts about the appearance of Appellant's original note. Appellant won her motion to vacate the judgment of foreclosure when the trial court in Cuyahoga County made the factual finding that her original note did not have an indorsement. This was a final judgment that Deutsche Bank never appealed from. Deustche Bank filed under penalty of perjury a Proof of Claim in Appellant's bankruptcy case a note exhibit that did not have an indorsement. Years later Deutsche Bank filed a foreclosure case with a note exhibit that contradicted the note exhibit in the previous trial court case and the federal bankruptcy case. Although the trial court granted judgment and the Court of Appeals affirmed, Appellant Kathleen Talliere's new counsel discovered that a false exhibit in Deutsche Bank's summary judgment affidavit. Appellant filed a 60(B)(5) motion to vacate and respectfully requests that this Court reconsider its decision and accept jurisdiction over her appeal. Other Ohioans have similar foreclosure document issues.

II.  DISCUSSION

The right to possess property is a fundamental right specifically listed as an inalienable right in Article 1 of the Ohio Constitution. See Ohio Constitution, Article 1, Section 1.01. Appellant Kathleen Talliere had the fundamental right to possess her real property in Ohio free from wrongful interference and a legal right to have her judgment of foreclosure vacated when she filed a Civil Rule 60(B) motion with exhibits showing that the bank's affidavit was false.

Deutsche Bank filed a previous foreclosure complaint against Appellant Talliere with a note that did not have any indorsements. This note has a stamp on it that it is a "TRUE AND CERTIFIED COPY." A copy of the signature page of this note is attached as Exhibit 1.

On April 12, 2012 the Cuyahoga County Court granted Appellant Talliere's motion to vacate the judgment of foreclosure and the court found that there was not an indorsement on Appellant's note from the original lender. Specifically, the court stated:[SEE IMAGE IN ORIGINAL]

Appellant's judgment of foreclosure was vacated prior to the Ohio Supreme Court's decision in Fed. Home Loan Mtge. Corp. v. Schwartzwald, 134 Ohio St.3d 13, 2012-Ohio-5017.

In 2019 Deutsche Bank filed a foreclosure complaint against Appellant Kathleen Talliere with a note that contained two indorsements, including one purportedly from the original lender. A copy of the signature page of the note now with 2 indorsements is attached as Exhibit 2. The note exhibit in the 2019 foreclosure case contradicted previous sworn statements made by Deutsche Bank in an earlier foreclosure case filed in Cuyahoga County ( see Exhibit 1) and in the United States Bankruptcy Court during Appellant Kathleen Talliere's bankruptcy case. A copy of the signature page of the note with no indorsements filed in bankruptcy court under penalty of perjury is attached as Exhibit 3. After the bankruptcy court questioned Deutsche Bank's claim to the note then Deustche Bank's counsel at the time prepared an allonge. A copy of the Allonge filed in Appellant's bankruptcy case is attached as Exhibit 4. Counsel for Deutsche Bank would not have needed to prepare an allonge if Appellant Kathleen Talliere's note contained an indorsement in blank. When Deutsche Bank filed a foreclsoure complaint against Appellant in 2019 there was no allonge and the note that the Cuyahoga County trial court had previously determined was not indorsed was now presented by Deutsche Bank to have two indorsements. See Exhibit 2.

Deutsche Bank's opposition to Appellant's motion to vacate failed to address two serious problems with the exhibits that Deutsche Bank presented to the trial court - (1) The Bailee Letter Agreement that purportedly sent the original note contains a false and impossible investor transfer date in 2003 when Appellant Kathleen Talliere's note was not signed until 2005 and (2) that the mortgage authenticated by Deutsche Bank's affidavit for summary judgment actually showed that the mortgage was sold to Greenwich Capital Finan in 2005. There was no interest for the original lender to give to Deutsche Bank in 2006 or afterwards and the note could not be indorsed as Deutsche Bank claimed in 2019.

In Appellant's motion to vacate she pointed out that the Bailee Letter attached to Deutsche Bank's affidavit did not have accurate information regarding Apppellant's note because the Bailee Letter claimed the note had been sold to an investor nearly two years before the note was ever signed by Appellant Kathleen Talliere. The Bailee Letter is attached as Exhibit 5. The false investor transfer date on the Bailee Letter exhibit attached to the Affidavit of Jean Knowles indicated that her claims about the original note were untrustworthy. Appellant Kathleen Talliere's arguments about the false Bailee Letter raised an operative fact that should have resulted in a hearing on her motion to vacate the judgment of foreclosure.

For the first time on appeal, in response to Appellant's memorandum in support of jurisdiction, Deutsche Bank made the new argument that "one of the exhibits submitted with an affidavit in support of Appellee's motion for summary judgment contained an immaterial typographical error." Deutsche Bank's Memorandum in Response, page 2.

Appellant Kathleen Talliere's case is not a case about a typo. This is a case where Deutsche Bank contradicted its own previous sworn statements in two different courts about the appearance of Appellant's original note and the filed an affidavit with a Bailee Letter exhibit that also contained false information. See Exhibit 5.

When Judge Boyko dismissed multiple foreclosure cases in one order due to insufficient foreclosure documents he stated that banks

seem to adopt the attitude that since they have been doing this for so long, unchallenged, this practice equates with legal compliance. Finally put to the test, their weak legal arguments compel the Court to stop them at the gate.

The Court will illustrate in simple terms its decision: "Fluidity of the market" -- "X" dollars, "contractual arrangements between institutions and counsel" -- "X" dollars, "purchasing mortgages in bulk and securitizing" -- "X" dollars, "rush to file, slow to record after judgment" -- "X" dollars, "the jurisdictional integrity of United States District Court" -- "Priceless."

In re Forecloure Cases, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 84011 (N.D. Ohio Oct. 31, 2007).

Despite Judge Boyko's decision being rendered in 2007 it did not change the banks improper foreclosure practices and merely convinced them to file foreclosure complaints in Cuyahoga County instead of federal court. It took another five years before the Ohio Supreme Court rendered its decision in Fed. Home Loan Mtge. Corp. v. Schwartzwald, 134 Ohio St.3d 13, 2012-Ohio-5017 and held "It is fundamental that a party commencing litigation must have standing to sue in order to present a justiciable controversy and invoke the jurisdiction of the common pleas court. Civ.R. 17(A) does not change this principle, and a lack of standing at the outset of litigation cannot be cured by receipt of an assignment of the claim or by substitution of the real party in interest." Fed. Home Loan Mtge. Corp. v. Schwartzwald, 134 Ohio St.3d 13, 2012-Ohio-5017, P 41.

It is time for the Ohio Supreme Court to step in again. The Courts cannot allow a bank to make sworn statements in one court proceeding and then change their sworn statements in a different court proceeding. This is a serious issue that needs to be addressed. Many times there are previous foreclosure cases or bankruptcy filings and the bank's foreclosure exhibits do not match the documents filed in a different foreclosure case. It is unjust for a homeowner to get a judgment of foreclosure granted against them in such situations.

When a judgment of foreclosure is granted based on a false sworn statement then there should be an easy path for the homeowner to vacate that judgment. This Court should accept jurisdiction over Appellant Kathleen Talliere's appeal to provide guidance for the process of vacating a foreclosure judgment.

The discovery of a false exhibit post judgment is the type of argument that should result in relief from judgment under Civil Rule 60(B)(5) for any other reason justifying relief from judgment. Ohio's Civil Rule 60(B) is similar to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b) which took into account the centuries-old "rule of equity to the effect that under certain circumstances, one of which is after-discovered fraud, relief will be granted against judgments" regardless of the judgment being final. Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v. Hartford-Empire Co., 322 U.S. 238,244, 64 S.Ct. 997, 88 L.Ed. 1250 (1944).

Appellant Kathleen Talliere asks this Court to reconsider its decision that declined jurisdiction and accept her appeal for Proposition of Law No. 1.

PROPOSITION OF LAW NO. 1 A homeowner has grounds to vacate a judgment of foreclosure under Civil Rule 60(B)(5) when the bank's attorney files a client affidavit with a false exhibit

Civ.R. 60(B)(5) is a "catch-all provision" that "reflect[s] the inherent power of a court to relieve a person from the unjust operation of a judgment." Caruso-Ciresi, Inc. v. Lohman, 5 Ohio St.3d 64, 448 N.E.2d 1365 (1983), paragraph one of the syllabus.

It is unjust for a bank to obtain a judgment of foreclosure by making false statements in an affidavit to obtain a judgment of foreclosure. The deception might not be apparent to the homeowner when the bank files the affidavit in support of its motion for summary judgment. In a situation where a homeowner discovers post judgment that the bank's affidavit exhibit was false then a homeowner should be able to file a motion to vacate pursuant to Civil Rule 60(B)(5).

The Affidavit of Jean Knowles had a false exhibit Bailee Letter where the investor transfer information falsely claimed a transfer almost 2 years prior to the note being signed.

The Bailee Letter was a crucial document because the note that Deutsche Bank obtained judgment on had indorsements that did not appear in a previous foreclosure case that Deutsche Bank filed against Appellant Kathleen Talliere in Cuyahoga County.

After the motion to vacate was filed Deutsche Bank did not dispute that the Bailee Letter contained a false investor transfer date and provided no explanation for this false exhibit.

The Ohio Supreme Court held that it was proper to vacate a judgment under Civil Rule 60(B)(5) even when successive 60(B) motions were filed if "it is not clear whether appellee knew the extent of the fraud upon the court when the previous motions were filed. " Coulson v. Coulson, 5 Ohio St.3d 12, 17, 448 N.E.2d 809 (1983).

Appellant Kathleen Talliere only filed one Civil Rule 60(B) motion and attached 12 exhibits to her motion, including the false Bailee Letter exhibit from Deutsche Bank's summary judgment affidavit. Appellant Kathleen Talliere was unaware of the fraud upon the court when the summary judgment motion was filed. Civil Rule 60(B) permits a court to vacate a judgment of foreclosure for any reason that would justify relief from judgment. See Civ.R. 60(B)(5).

In Appellant Kathleen Talliere's motion to vacate she pointed out that Bailee Letter stated a false and impossible investor transfer date in 2003 when Appellant Kathleen Talliere's note was not signed until 2005. (T.d. 71). This Bailee Letter was an operative fact that should have warranted a hearing. Appellant Deutsche Bank did not deny that the Bailee Letter contained an impossible date and Deutsche Bank did not offer any explanation for why the alleged custodian of records would have a false transfer date in its records.

In Appellant Kathleen Talliere's case the Bailee Letter was represented by Deutsche Bank's counsel to contain a copy of the Appellant's original note but this note has two indorsements that were not part of the note in a prior foreclosure case and in Appellant's bankruptcy case. Appellant also pointed out that the Bailee Letter was defective because it falsely claimed Appellant's note had been transferred to an investor nearly two years before Appellant ever signed the note. The Bailee Letter Agreement exhibit to the Knowles Affidavit claims that Appellant Talliere's note was transferred to an investor on "05/01/2003". Specifically, it states:

Inv XFER/

Issue

05/01/2003

A copy if the Bailee Letter is attached as Exhibit 5.

The Bailee Letter Agreement states that Appellant Kathleen Talliere's note was transferred to an investor in 2003 but the note was not even signed by Kathleen Talliere until two years later in 2005. This was a false document that called into question the accuracy of the two indorsements that Deutsche Bank claimed were on the note in 2019. Appellant Kathleen Talliere should have grounds for relief under Civil Rule 60(B)(5) for any other reason justifying relief from judgment. At a minimum she should have received the due process of a hearing in the trial court on her motion to vacate. When a Civil Rule 60(B)(5) motion has exhibits attached to it, such as the exhibits attached to this motion, then the movant has raised operative facts to establish any reason to justify relief and the trial court abuses its discretion by not holding a hearing on the motion.

CONCLUSION

Due to the homeless crisis and false documents this appeal is a case of public or great general interest and raises a substantial constitutional due process question. Appellant Kathleen Talliere requests that the Supreme Court of Ohio reconsider and accept jurisdiction of her appeal.

Respectfully submitted,

/s/ Grace M. Doberdruk

Grace M. Doberdruk (0085547)

Law Office of Grace M. Doberdruk

5950 Mayfield Road

Cleveland, Ohio 44124

Telephone (440) 221-5437

Fax (440)848-1616

grace.doberdruk@gmail.com

Counsel for Appellant Kathleen Talliere

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

I hereby certify that on August 2, 2024 a copy of the foregoing document was filed electronically and served by email to counsel for Appellee, Nathan Blaske via nathan.blaske@dinsmore.com and Shannon O'Connell Egan via shannon.egan@dinsmore.com

/s/ Grace Doberdruk

 GRACE DOBERDRUK (0085547)

[SEE EXHIBIT "1" IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT "2" IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT "3" IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT "4" IN ORIGINAL]

[SEE EXHIBIT "5" IN ORIGINAL]
