CHAPTER 868
Right of Tenants to Pay to Stay
868.01   Definitions.
868.02   Tenant’s right to pay to stay prior to filing of an eviction action for non-payment of rent.
868.03   Tenant’s right to pay to stay prior to an eviction judgment for non-payment of rent.
868.04   Tenant’s right to pay to stay prior to the execution of the eviction judgment for non-payment of rent.
868.05   Late fees.
868.06   Rent receipt required.
868.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purposes of this chapter, "tenant" means a person entitled under a rental agreement to use and occupy of residential premises to the exclusion of others.
   (b)   For the purposes of this chapter, "tender" means an offer of payment. A letter from a rental assistance agency offering to make payment shall constitute a tender.
(Ord. 2021-17. Passed 6-21-21.)
868.02 TENANT'S RIGHT TO PAY TO STAY PRIOR TO FILING OF AN EVICTION ACTION FOR NON-PAYMENT OF RENT.
   (a)   (1)   At any time prior to the filing of an action under R.C. Chapter 1923 for nonpayment of rent by a landlord, a tenant shall have the right to pay the landlord all past due rent with reasonable late fees to avoid the filing of such action for the restitution of the lands or tenements.
      (2)   If the tenant, or someone or an agency on the tenant's behalf, tenders all accrued rent and reasonable late fees to the landlord, the landlord shall accept the tendered payment and allow the tenant to maintain the tenancy.
   (b)   If the tenant, or someone or an agency on the tenant's behalf, tenders all past due rent with reasonable late fees to the landlord prior to the filing of an action under R.C. Chapter 1923 and the landlord refuses the tender, the tenant's tender of all past due rent with reasonable late fees shall be an affirmative defense to any action filed by the landlord against the tenant for nonpayment of rent.
(Ord. 2021-17. Passed 6-21-21.)
868.03 TENANT'S RIGHT TO PAY TO STAY PRIOR TO AN EVICTION JUDGMENT FOR NON-PAYMENT OF RENT.
   (a)   After the filing of an action under R.C. Chapter 1923 for nonpayment of rent but prior to a judgment, the tenant shall have the right to pay the landlord all past due rent, reasonable late fees and court costs so that the tenant may maintain the tenancy. If the tenant, or someone or an agency on the tenant's behalf, tenders all past due rent amounts, including late fees and court costs, the landlord must accept the payment. Upon receipt of the payment, the landlord shall dismiss the action against the tenant.
   (b)   If the tenant, or someone or an agency on the tenant's behalf, tenders all past due rent with reasonable late fees and court costs to the landlord prior to a judgment and the landlord refuses the tender, the tenant's tender of all past due rent, reasonable late fees and court costs shall be an affirmative defense to the eviction action filed by the landlord against the tenant for nonpayment of rent.
(Ord. 2021-17. Passed 6-21-21.)
868.04 TENANT'S RIGHT TO PAY TO STAY PRIOR TO EXECUTION OF THE EVICTION JUDGMENT FOR NON-PAYMENT OF RENT.
   (a)   After the filing of an action under R.C. Chapter 1923 for nonpayment of rent but prior to the execution of the eviction judgment through a writ of restitution, the tenant shall have the right to pay the landlord all past due rent, reasonable late fees and court costs, including the cost of obtaining the writ, so that the tenant may maintain the tenancy. If the tenant, or someone or an agency on the tenant's behalf, tenders all past due rent amounts, including reasonable late fees and court costs, the landlord must accept the payment. Upon receipt of the payment, the landlord shall notify the court who shall vacate the eviction judgment and dismiss the eviction action against the tenant.
   (b)   If the tenant, or someone or an agency on the tenant's behalf, tenders all past due rent with reasonable late fees and court costs to the landlord prior to the execution of the eviction judgment through a writ of restitution and the landlord refuses the tender, the bailiff shall not enforce the eviction judgment until the court instructs the bailiff to do so after an emergency hearing on the tenant's right to pay and stay at the premises. If the court finds during the emergency hearing that the tenant tendered all past due rent, reasonable late fees and court costs, the court shall vacate the eviction judgment and dismiss the eviction action against the tenant.
(Ord. 2021-17. Passed 6-21-21.)
868.05 LATE FEES.
   If a rental agreement includes a provision that authorizes the landlord to assess the tenant a fee for late payment of the monthly rent, the total amount of that late payment fee for any month may not exceed the larger of: (i) twenty-five dollars ($25.00); or (ii) five percent of the monthly contract rent.
(Ord. 2021-17. Passed 6-21-21.)
868.06 RENT RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   The landlord shall provide the tenant with a signed receipt for the security deposit and all rental payments except for payments made by personal check of the tenant, at the time the security deposit or rental payments are made.
(Ord. 2021-17. Passed 6-21-21.)
Disclaimer: This Code of Ordinances and/or any other documents that appear on this site may not reflect the most current legislation adopted by the Municipality. American Legal Publishing provides these documents for informational purposes only. These documents should not be relied upon as the definitive authority for local legislation. Additionally, the formatting and pagination of the posted documents varies from the formatting and pagination of the official copy. The official printed copy of a Code of Ordinances should be consulted prior to any action being taken.

For further information regarding the official version of any of this Code of Ordinances or other documents posted on this site, please contact the Municipality directly or contact American Legal Publishing toll-free at 800-445-5588.

Hosted by: American Legal Publishing
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/yellowsprings/latest/yellowsprings_oh/0-0-0-25956